By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas by an act of Congress entitled "An act to admit the States of North Carolina, South Carolina, Louisiana, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida to representation in Congress," passed the 25th day of June, 1868, it is declared that it is made the duty of the President, within ten days after receiving official information of the ratification by the legislature of either of said States of a proposed amendment to the Constitution known as article fourteen, to issue a proclamation announcing that fact; and
Whereas a paper was received at the Department of State this 27th day of July, 1868, purporting to be a joint resolution of the senate and house of representatives of the general assembly of the State of Georgia, ratifying the said proposed amendment and also purporting to have passed the two said houses, respectively, on the 21st of July, 1868, and to have been approved by Rufus B. Bullock, who therein signs himself governor of Georgia, which paper is also attested by the signatures of Benjamin Conley, as president of the senate, and R. L. McWhorters, as speaker of the house of representatives, and is further attested by the signatures of A. E. Marshall, as secretary of the senate, and M. A. Hardin, as clerk of the house of representatives:
Now, therefore, be it known that I, Andrew Johnson, President of the United States of America, in compliance with and execution of the act of Congress before mentioned, do issue this my proclamation, announcing the fact of the ratification of the said amendment by the legislature of the State of Georgia in the manner hereinbefore set forth.
In testimony whereof I have signed these presents with my hand and have caused the seal of the United States to be hereto affixed.
Done at the city of Washington, this 27th day of July, A. D. 1868, and of the Independence of the United States of America the ninety-third.
ANDREW JOHNSON.
By the President:
WILLIAM H. SEWARD,
 Secretary of State.