TREASURY DEPARTMENT
 To Collectors of Customs:
 
Under the provisions of section 1955, Revised Statutes, so much of Department instructions of July 3, 1875,* approved by the President, as prohibits the importation and use of breech-loading rifles and suitable ammunition therefor into and within the limits of the Territory of Alaska is hereby amended and modified so as to permit emigrants who intend to become actual bona fide settlers upon the mainland to ship to the care of the collector of customs at Sitka, for their own personal protection and for the hunting of game, not exceeding one such rifle and suitable ammunition therefor to each male adult; also to permit actual bona fide residents of the mainland of Alaska (not including Indians or traders), upon application to the collector and with his approval, to order and ship for personal use such arms and ammunition to his care, not exceeding one rifle for each such person, and proper ammunition.
The sale of such arms and ammunition is prohibited except by persons about to leave the Territory, and then only to bona fide residents (excluding Indians and traders) upon application to and with the approval of the collector.
H. F. FRENCH,
 Acting Secretary.
 
CHESTER A. ARTHUR
Approved:
 CHESTER A. ARTHUR, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
 To all to whom these presents shall come, greeting:
 
Whereas on the 10th day of January, 1863, Fitz John Porter, then major-general of volunteers in the military service of the United States, and also colonel of the Fifteenth Regiment of Infantry and brevet brigadier-general in the United States Army, was by a general court-martial, for certain offenses of which he had been thereby convicted, sentenced "to be cashiered and to be forever disqualified from holding any office of trust or profit under the Government of the United States;" and
Whereas on the 21st day of January, 1863, that sentence was duly confirmed by the President of the United States, and by his order of the same date carried into execution; and
Whereas so much of that sentence as forever disqualified the said Fitz John Porter from holding office imposed upon him a continuing penalty and is still being executed; and Whereas doubts have since arisen concerning the guilt of the said Fitz John Porter of the offenses whereof he was convicted by the said court-martial, rounded upon the result of an investigation ordered on the 12th day of April, 1878, by the President of the United States, which are deemed by me to be of sufficient gravity to warrant the remission of that part of said sentence which has not yet been completely executed:
Now, therefore, know ye that I, Chester A. Arthur, President of the United States, by virtue of the power vested in me by the Constitution of the United States and in consideration of the premises, do hereby grant to the said Fitz John Porter full remission of the hereinbefore-mentioned continuing penalty.
In witness whereof I have hereunto signed my name and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the city of Washington, this 4th day of May, A. D. 1882, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and sixth.
CHESTER A. ARTHUR
By the President:
FREDK. T. FRELINGHUYSEN,
 Secretary of State.