 GENERAL ORDERS, NO. 84.
HEADQUARTERS OF THE ARMY,
ADJUTANT-GENERAL'S OFFICE,
 Washington, November 18, 1886.
 
I. The following proclamation (order) has been received from the President:
EXECUTIVE MANSION,
 Washington, D.C
 .
 November 18, 1886.
 
 To the People of the United States:
 
It is my painful duty to announce the death of Chester Alan Arthur, lately the President of the United States, which occurred, after an illness of long duration, at an early hour this morning at his residence in the city of New York.
Mr. Arthur was called to the chair of the Chief Magistracy of the nation by a tragedy which cast its shadow over the entire Government.
His assumption of the grave duties was marked by an evident and conscientious sense of his responsibilities and an earnest desire to meet them in a patriotic and benevolent spirit.
With dignity and ability he sustained the important duties of his station, and the reputation of his personal worth, conspicuous graciousness, and patriotic fidelity will long be cherished by his fellow-countrymen.
In token of respect to the memory of the deceased it is ordered that the Executive Mansion and the several departmental buildings be draped in mourning for a period of thirty days and that on the day of the funeral all public business in the departments be suspended.
The Secretaries of War and of the Navy will cause orders to be issued for appropriate military and naval honors to be rendered on that day.
Done at the city of Washington this 18th day of November, A. D. 1886, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eleventh.
GROVER CLEVELAND
By the President:
THOMAS F. BAYARD,
 Secretary of State.
 
II. In compliance with the instructions of the President, on the day of the funeral, at each military post, the troops and cadets will be paraded and this order read to them, after which all labors for the day will cease. The national flag will be displayed at half-staff.
At dawn of day thirteen guns will be fired, and afterwards at intervals of thirty minutes between the rising and setting of the sun a single gun, and at the close of the day a national salute of thirty-eight guns.
The officers of the Army will wear crape on the left arm and on their swords and the colors of the Battalion of Engineers, of the several regiments, and of the United States Corps of Cadets will be put in mourning for the period of six months.
The date and hour of the funeral will be communicated to department commanders by telegraph, and by them to their subordinate commanders.
By command of Lieutenant-General Sheridan:
R. C. DRUM,
 Adjutant-General.