 GENERAL ORDERS NO. 16.
HEADQUARTERS OF THE ARMY,
ADJUTANT-GENERAL'S OFFICE,
 Washington, February 14, 1891.
 
1. The following order of the War Department is published to the Army:
WAR DEPARTMENT,
 Washington
 ,
 February 14, 1891
 .
The death of General Sherman is hereby announced in the fitting words of the President in his message to Congress:
The following Executive order will be published to the Army:
EXECUTIVE MANSION,
 Washington, D.C
 .
 February 14, 1891.
 
It is my painful duty to announce to the country that General William Tecumseh Sherman died this day at 1 o'clock and 50 minutes p.m., at his residence in the city of New York. The Secretary of War will cause the highest military honors to be paid to the memory of this distinguished officer. The national flag will be floated at half-mast over all public buildings until after the burial, and the public business will be suspended in the Executive Departments at the city of Washington and in the city where the interment takes place on the day of the funeral and in all places where public expression is given to the national sorrow during such hours as will enable every officer and employee to participate therein with their fellow-citizens.
BENJ. HARRISON
The Major-General Commanding will issue the necessary orders to the Army.
 It is ordered
 , That the War Department be draped in mourning for the period of thirty days, and that all business be suspended therein on the day of the funeral.
L. A. GRANT,
 Acting Secretary of War.
 
II. On the day of the funeral the troops at every military post will be paraded and this order read to them, after which all labors for the day will cease. The national flag will be displayed at half-staff from the time of the receipt of this order until the close of the funeral. On the day of the funeral a salute of seventeen guns will be fired at half-hour intervals, commencing at 8 o'clock a.m. The officers of the Army will wear the usual badges of mourning, and the colors of the several regiments and battalions will be draped in mourning for a period of six months.
The day and hour of the funeral will be communicated to department commanders by telegraph, and by them to their subordinate commanders. Other necessary orders will be issued hereafter relative to the appropriate funeral ceremonies.
By command of Major-General Schofield:
J. C. KELTON,
 Adjutant-General.