By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas, pursuant to section 3 of the act of Congress approved October 1, 1890, entitled "An act to reduce the revenue and equalize duties on imports, and for other purposes," the Secretary of State of the United States of America communicated to the Government of Salvador the action of the Congress of the United States of America, with a view to secure reciprocal trade, in declaring the articles enumerated in said section 3 to be exempt from duty upon their importation into the United States of America; and
Whereas the minister for foreign affairs for the Republic of Salvador has communicated to the envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary of the United States to Salvador that the Congress of Salvador has by due legal enactment authorized the executive power to conclude a definitive commercial arrangement with the United States to supersede the existing provisional arrangement; and
Whereas, in reciprocity for the admission into the United States of America free of all duty of the articles enumerated in section 3 of said act, the Government of Salvador will admit free of all duty from and after December 31, 1892, into all the established ports of entry of Salvador the articles or merchandise named in the following schedule, provided that the same is the manufacture or product of the United States:
 PRODUCTS AND MANUFACTURES OF THE UNITED STATES TO BE ADMITTED INTO SALVADOR FREE OF CUSTOMS DUTIES AND OF ALL CHARGES, WHETHER NATIONAL OR PROVINCIAL.
1. Cotton-seed oil.
2. Live animals.
3. Tar, vegetable and mineral.
4. Wire, barbed, and staples for fences.
5. Apparatus for distilling liquors.
6. Plows, cultivators, hoes, axes, machetes, shovels, and rakes.
7. Quicksilver.
8. Barrels, casks, and tanks of iron for water.
9. Mineral ores.
10. Boats, lighters, tackle, anchors, chains, girtlines, sails, and all other articles for vessels, to be used in the ports, lakes, and rivers of the Republic.
11. Coal, mineral.
12. Roman cement and hydraulic lime.
13. Kettles for making salt.
14. Wooden stoves, barrel heads and hoops.
15. Houses of wood and iron, complete and in parts.
16. Beans, potatoes, and onions.
17. Fruits, fresh.
18. Guano and other fertilizers, natural and artificial.
19. Guys for mining purposes.
20. Hay and straw for forage.
21. Furnaces and instruments for assaying metals.
22. Scientific instruments.
23. Loadstones.
24. Bricks, fire bricks, and crucibles for melting.
25. Hops.
26. Printed books, pamphlets and newspapers, bound or unbound, maps, photographs, printed music, and paper for music.
27. Corn, rice, barley, and rye.
28. Marble, dressed. for furniture, statues, fountains, gravestones, and building purposes.
29. Machinery of all kinds, including sewing machines, and separate or extra parts for the same.
30. Materials of all kinds for the construction and operation of railroads.
31. Materials of all kinds for the construction and operation of telegraphic and telephonic lines.
32. Materials of all kinds for lighting by electricity and gas.
33. Materials of all kinds for the construction of wharves in ports, lakes, or rivers.
34. Wood of all kinds for building, in trunks or pieces, beams, rafters, planks, boards, shingles, and flooring.
35. Molds for making sugar.
36. Models of machinery and buildings.
37. Printing materials, including presses, ink, and all other accessories.
38. Samples of merchandise the duties on which do not exceed $1.
39. Gold and silver in bars, dust, or coin.
40. Preparations of flour in biscuits, crackers, not sweetened, macaroni, vermicelli, and tallarin.
41. Plates of iron for building purposes.
42. Kettles for making sugar.
43. Sulphate of quinine.
44. Tubes of iron and all other accessories for water supply.
45. Wagons, carts, and carriages of all kinds, and separate parts for the same.
It is understood that the packages or coverings in which the articles named in the foregoing schedule are imported shall be free of duty if they are usual and proper for the purpose.
And whereas the Government of Salvador has further stipulated that the laws and regulations adopted to protect its revenue and prevent fraud in the declarations and proof that the articles named in the foregoing schedule are the product or manufacture of the United States of America shall impose no additional charges on the importer nor undue restrictions on the articles imported; and
Whereas the envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary of the United States to Salvador has informed the Government of Salvador that its action in granting freedom of duties to the products and manufactures of the United States of America on their importation into Salvador is accepted as a due reciprocity for the action of Congress as set forth in section 3 of said act:
Now, therefore, be it known that I, Benjamin Harrison, President of the United States of America, have caused the above-stated modifications of the tariff laws of Salvador to be made public for the information of the citizens of the United States of America.
In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the city of Washington, this 27th day of December, A.D. 1892, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and seventeenth.
BENJ. HARRISON
By the President:
JOHN W. FOSTER,
 Secretary of State.