By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas, pursuant to section 3 of the act of Congress approved October 1, 1890, entitled "An act to reduce the revenue and equalize duties on imports, and for other purposes," the Secretary of State of the United States of America communicated to the Government of Guatemala the action of the Congress of the United States of America, with a view to secure reciprocal trade, in declaring the articles enumerated in said section 3 to be exempt from duty upon their importation into the United States of America; and
Whereas the envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary of Guatemala at Washington has communicated to the Secretary of State the fact that, in reciprocity for the admission into the United States of America free of all duty of the articles enumerated in section 3 of said act, the Government of Guatemala will by due legal enactment of the National Congress of that Republic admit free of all duty, from and after the 30th day after the passage of the said act by the Congress of Guatemala, into all the established ports of entry of that Republic the articles or merchandise named in the following schedule, provided that the same be the product or manufacture of the United States:
 SCHEDULE OF ARTICLES THE PRODUCT OR MANUFACTURE OF THE UNITED STATES TO BE ADMITTED INTO GUATEMALA FREE OF ALL CUSTOMS DUTIES AND OF ANY NATIONAL OR MUNICIPAL DUES AND NATIONAL PORT CHARGES. I.
1. Live animals.
2. Barley, corn or maize, and rye.
3. Corn meal.
4. Potatoes, pease, and beans.
5. Fresh vegetables.
6. Rice.
7. Hay and straw for forage.
8. Tar, pitch, resin, turpentine, and asphalt.
9. Cotton-seed oil and other products of said seed.
10. Quicksilver.
11. Mineral coal.
12. Guano and other fertilizers.
13. Lumber and timber, in the rough or prepared for building purposes.
14. Houses of wood or iron, complete or in parts.
15. Fire backs, lime, cement, shingles, and tiles of clay or glass for roofing and construction of buildings.
16. Marble in slabs, columns, cornices, door and window frames, and fountains, and dressed or undressed marble for buildings.
17. Piping of clay, glazed or unglazed, for aqueducts and sewers.
18. Wire, plain or barbed, for fences, with hooks and staples for same.
19. Printed books, bound or unbound; printed music; maps, charts, and globes.
20. Materials for the construction and equipment of railways.
21. Materials for electrical illumination.
22. Materials expressly for the construction of wharves.
23. Anchors and hoisting tackle.
24. Railings of cast or wrought iron.
25. Balconies of cast or wrought iron.
26. Window blinds of wood or metal.
27. Iron fireplaces or stoves.
28. Machinery, including steam machinery for agriculture and mining, and separate parts of the same.
29. Gold and silver, in bullion, dust, or coin.
It is understood that the packages or coverings in which the articles named in the foregoing schedule are imported shall enter free of duty if they are usual and proper for the purpose.
And whereas the Government of Guatemala has further stipulated that the laws and regulations adopted to protect its revenue and prevent fraud in the declarations and proof that the articles named in the foregoing schedule are the product or manufacture of the United States of America shall impose no undue restrictions on the importer and no additional charges on the articles imported; and
Whereas the Secretary of State has, by my direction, given assurance to the envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary of Guatemala at Washington that this action of the Government of Guatemala in granting freedom of duties to the products and manufactures of the United States of America on their importation into Guatemala, is accepted as a due reciprocity for the action of Congress as set forth in section 3 of said act; and
Whereas the diplomatic representative of the United States of America at the city of Guatemala has been advised by the Government of Guatemala of the passage on April 30, 1892, of an act by the National Congress of that Republic approving the commercial arrangement concluded between the Governments of the two Republics and of the issue of a decree admitting, on and after the 30th day of May, 1892, the articles mentioned in the above schedule being the product or manufacture of the United States of America into the ports of Guatemala free of all duties whatsoever:
Now, therefore, be it known that I, Benjamin Harrison, President of the United States of America, have caused the above-stated modifications of the tariff laws of Guatemala to be made public for the information of the citizens of the United States of America.
In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the city of Washington, this 18th day of May, 1892, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and sixteenth.
BENJ. HARRISON
By the President:
JAMES G. BLAINE,
 Secretary of State.