 SPECIAL DEPARTMENTAL RULE NO. I.
Special Departmental Rule No. 1 is hereby amended by adding to the exceptions from examination therein made in the Department of the Treasury the following:
In the office of the Second Auditor: One skilled laborer with duties exclusively of a carpenter and cabinetmaker.
In the Bureau of Engraving and Printing: Custodian of proving presses and modeler.
 SPECIAL CUSTOMS RULE NO. I.
Special Customs Rule No. 1, authorizing certain exceptions from examination in the classified customs service, is hereby amended by adding to the statement of places therein excepted the following:
In the customs district of Vermont: One deputy collector and inspector, to be stationed at Halifax during the winter and at Quebec during the time the St. Lawrence River is open to navigation.
 RAILWAY MAIL RULE IV.
Railway Mail Rule IV, section 2, clause (b), of the civil-service rules is hereby amended by striking out all after the word "averages" in line 3 to and including the word "territory" in line 10, and the word "further" in line 10; so that as amended the clause will read:
The Commission shall certify from the register of the State or Territory in which the vacancy exists the names of the three eligibles thereon having the highest averages:
 Provided
 , That if upon the register of the State or Territory in which the vacancy exists there are the names of eligibles having a claim of preference under section 1754, Revised Statutes, the names of such eligibles shall be certified before the names of other eligibles of higher grade:
 Provided further
 , That on a line on which the service does not require the full time of a clerk, and one can be employed jointly with the railroad company, the appointment may be made without examination and certification, with the consent of the Commission, upon a statement of the facts by the general superintendent; but no clerk so appointed shall be eligible for transfer or appointment to any other place in the service.
Section 6 of said rule is hereby amended by adding after the word "substitutes" in line 6 the words "resident in the counties which are supplied wholly or in part by the road on which the vacancy exists;" so that as amended the section will read:
6. There may be certified and appointed in each State and Territory, in the manner provided for in this rule, such number of substitute clerks, not exceeding the ratio of one substitute to ten regular clerks, in such State or Territory as the Postmaster-General may authorize, and any vacancies occurring in class 1 in any State or Territory in which substitutes have been appointed shall be filled by the appointment thereto of those substitutes resident in the counties which are supplied wholly or in part by the road on which the vacancy exists, in the order of their appointment as substitutes, without further certification. The time during which any substitute is actually employed in the service shall be counted as part of his probation.
 GENERAL RULE III.
Section 2 of General Rule III is hereby amended by adding thereto the following clause:
(h) For the appointment of an Indian as assistant teacher in the Indian-school service.
 INDIAN RULE IV.
Indian Rule IV is hereby amended by adding thereto the following section:
6. Upon the nomination by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, through the Secretary of the Interior, of an Indian for appointment as assistant teacher, the Commission shall give such Indian noncompetitive examination under General Rule III, section 2, clause (h), upon passing which at the required grade he shall be certified and appointed for the probationary period provided for in section 3 of this rule, at the end of which period he shall be absolutely appointed or discharged from the service in accordance with the provisions of said section. Any Indian appointed assistant teacher as herein provided may be, any time after absolute appointment, appointed teacher upon the certification of the Commission that he has passed the teacher's examination.
Approved:
GROVER CLEVELAND.