The civil-service rules as revised May 6, 1896, are hereby amended as follows:
Rule I, section 2, clause (b) : In the third line, after the word "act," insert "and these rules;" so that as amended the clause will read:
(b) The term" classified service" refers to all that part of the executive civil service of the United States included within the provisions of the civil-service act and these rules.
Rule III, section 2, clause (a) , is amended by adding thereto the following clause:
The Ordnance Department at large.
Rule III, section 2, clause (a) , is amended by striking out after "persons" in the third line the words "who have been nominated for" and inserting in lieu thereof the words "whose appointments are subject to."
Rule III, section 2 clause (b) , is amended by inserting in the second line, after the word "designation," the words "except persons merely employed as laborers or workmen and persons whose appointments are subject to confirmation by the Senate."
Rule III, section 2, clause (b) , is amended by adding thereto the following words:
Who are employed in the Department of Justice under the annual appropriation for the investigation of official acts, records, and accounts of officers of the courts.
Rule III, section 3, is amended to read as follows: 3. The custom-house service shall include such officers and employees as have been or may hereafter be classified under the civil-service act who are serving in any customs district whose officers and employees number as many as five; and whenever in any customs district whose officers and employees number less than five the number of officers and employees shall be increased to as many as five the Secretary of the Treasury shall at once notify the Commission of such increase, and the officers and employees of said district shall be included within the classified service from the date of said increase.
Rule III, section 6, is amended by inserting in the second line, after the word "employees," the following: "in any internal-revenue district;" and in the third line, after the word "act," by striking out the following: "in any internal-revenue district;" so that as amended the section will read:
6. The internal-revenue service shall include the officers and employees in any internal-revenue district who have been or may hereafter be classified under the civil-service act.
Rule VI is amended by adding in the departmental service an additional clause, making exceptions from examination, to read as follows:
(c) Attorneys or assistant attorneys in any Department whose main duties are connected with the management of cases in court.
Amend Rule VI by striking out after "internal-revenue service" the words "one cashier in each internal-revenue district" and inserting in lieu thereof--
One employee in each internal-revenue district who shall act as cashier or chief deputy or assistant collector, as may be determined by the Treasury Department.
Amend Rule VIII by striking out section 3.
Rule IX is amended by striking out in the seventh line the word "classified" and inserting in lieu thereof after the word "position" in the same line the following: "included within the classified service;" so that as amended the line will read: "misconduct, been separated from a position included within the classified service at the."
Rule XI, section 2, is amended by striking out in line 1 the words "The details regulating" and inserting in their stead the words "Regulations to govern;" so that as amended the section will read:
2. Regulations to govern promotions shall be formulated by the Commission after consultation with the heads of the several Departments, bureaus, and offices. It shall be the duty of the head of each Department, bureau, or office when such regulations have been formulated to promulgate the same, and any amendments or revocations thereof shall be approved by the Commission before going into effect.
Rule XI, section 3: The word "examiners" in line 7 is changed to "promotion," making the section read:
3. The Commission shall, upon the nomination of the head of each Department, bureau, or office, designate and select a suitable number of persons, not less than three, in said Department, bureau, or office to be members of a board of promotion. In the Departments, bureaus, or offices in Washington and in all other offices the members of any board of promotion shall not all be adherents of one political party when persons of other political parties are available and competent to serve upon said board.
Approved, November 2, 1896.
GROVER CLEVELAND.