By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas the Cascade Range Forest Reserve, in the State of Oregon, was established by proclamation dated September 28, 1893, under and by virtue of section twenty-four of the act of Congress, approved March 3, 1891, entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes," which provides, "That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth. whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof;"
And whereas it is further provided by the act of Congress, approved June 4, 1897, entitled, "An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1898, and for other purposes," that "The President is hereby authorized at any time to modify any executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve;"
Now, therefore, I, William McKinley, President of the United States, by virtue of the power vested in me by the aforesaid act of Congress, approved June 4, 1897, do hereby make known and proclaim that there is hereby reserved from entry or settlement, and added to and made a part of the aforesaid Cascade Range Forest Reserve, all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of land lying and being situate in the State of Oregon and particularly described as follows, to wit:
The south half (S. 1/2) of township one (t) south, townships two (2) south, three (3) south, and four (4) south, range eleven (11) east, Willamette Meridian; township five (5) south, ranges nine (9) and ten (10) east; and so much of township six (6) south, ranges nine (9) and ten (10) east, as lies north of the Warm Springs Indian Reservation.
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired: Provided, that this exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settlement upon the tract of land reserved by this proclamation.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the city of Washington this 1st day of July, A. D. 1901, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-fifth.
WILLIAM MCKINLEY
By the President:
DAVID J. HILL,
 Acting Secretary of State.