By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas,
 the President on August 20, 1901, issued his proclamation stating that he has been advised by the Louisiana Purchase Exposition Commission, pursuant to the provisions of section 9 of the act of Congress approved March 3, 1901, entitled "An act to provide for celebrating the one hundredth anniversary of the purchase of the Louisiana Territory by the United States by holding an international exhibition of arts, industries, manufactures, and the products of the soil, mine, forest, and sea in the city of St. Louis, in the State of Missouri," that provision had been made for grounds and buildings for the uses specified in the said mentioned act of Congress;
Whereas,
 it was declared and proclaimed by the President in his aforesaid proclamation that such international exhibition would be opened in the city of St. Louis, in the State of Missouri, not later than the first day of May, 1903, and be closed not later than the first day of December thereafter;"
And Whereas,
 section 8 of the act of Congress approved June 28, 1902, entitled "An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the government for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1903, and for other purposes," fixes a subsequent date for the holding of the said international exhibition and specifically states that "said commission shall provide for the dedication of the buildings of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, in said city of St. Louis, not later than the thirtieth day of April, 1903, with appropriate ceremonies, and thereafter said exposition shall be opened to visitors at such time as may be designated by said company, subject to the approval of said commission, not later than the first day of May, 1904, and shall be closed at such time as the national commission may determine, subject to the approval of said company, but not later than the first day of December thereafter;"
Now, Therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt,
 President of the United States, do hereby declare and proclaim the aforesaid provision of law to the end that it may definitely and formally be known that such international exhibition will be opened in the city of St. Louis, in the State of Missouri, not later than May 1, 1904, and will be closed not later than December first of that year.
In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done
 at the city of Washington, the first day of July, A.D. 1902, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-sixth.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President:
DAVID J. HILL,
 Acting Secretary of State.