By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas,
 it was declared in my proclamation of July 14, in the year of our Lord 1905, prescribed the manner in which certain lands within the Uintah Indian Reservation should be opened to settlement and entry under the homestead and townsite laws of the United States, among other things as follows:
Commencing on Monday, August 28, 1905, at 9 o'clock a. m., the applications of those drawing numbers 1 to 50, inclusive, must be presented at the land office in the town of Vernal, Utah, in the land district in which said lands are situated, and will be considered in their numerical order during the first day, and the applications of those drawing numbers 51 to 100, inclusive, must be presented and will be considered in their numerical order during the second day, and so on at that rate until all of said lands subject to entry under the homestead law, and desired thereunder, have been ordered. If any applicant fails to appear and present his application for entry when the number assigned to him by the drawing is reached, his right to enter will be passed until after the other applications assigned for that day have been disposed of, when he will be given another opportunity to make entry, failing in which he will be deemed to have abandoned his right to make entry under such drawing.
And, Whereas,
 there now appear to be ample reasons for a modification of said provision;
Now, Therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by said act of Congress, and for the purpose of modifying the provision of said proclamation above quoted, do hereby declare and direct that said provision be modified to read as follows:
Commencing on Monday, August 28, 1905, at 9 o'clock a. m., the applications of those drawing numbers 1 to 111, inclusive, must be presented at the land office in the town of Vernal, Utah, in the land district in which said lands are situated, and will be considered in their numerical order during the first day, and the applications of those drawing numbers 112 to 222, inclusive, must be presented and will be considered in their numerical order during the second day, and so on at that rate until all of said lands subject to entry under the homestead law, and desired thereunder, have been entered. If any applicant fails to appear and present his application for entry when the number assigned to him by the drawing is reached, his right to enter will be passed until after the other applications assigned for that day have been disposed of, when he will be given another opportunity to make entry, failing in which he will be deemed to have abandoned his right to make entry under such drawing.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done
 at the city of Washington this 2d day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President:
ALVEY A. ADEE,
 Acting Secretary of State.