By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas,
 the Secretary of Agriculture, by virtue of the authority vested in him by Section Three of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (40 Stat., 755), has submitted to me for approval, regulations further amendatory of the regulations approved and proclaimed July 31, 1918, which the Secretary of Agriculture has determined to be suitable amendatory regulations permitting and governing the hunting, taking, capture, killing, possession, sale, purchase, shipment, transportation, carriage and export of said birds and parts thereof and their nests and eggs, which said amendments are as follows:
Regulation 3, as amended by Proclamation dated July 28, 1919, (41 Stat., 1st Session, Pt. 2, p. 24) and Proclamation dated March 3, 1921, is hereby further amended so as to read as follows:
Regulation 3.—Means by which migratory game birds may be taken.
The migratory game birds specified in Regulation 4 hereof may be taken during the open season with a gun only, not larger than No. 10 gauge, fired from the shoulder, except as specifically permitted by Regulations 7,8,9, and 10 hereof; they may be taken during the open season from the land and water, with the aid of a dog, the use of decoys, and from a blind or floating device (other than an airplane, powerboat, sailboat, any boat under sail, or any floating device towed by a powerboat or sailboat).
Regulation 4, subtitle "Waterfowl (except wood duck, eider ducks, and swans), coot, gallinules, and Wilson snipe or jacksnipe," is hereby amended so as to read as follows:
Regulation 4.—Open seasons on and possession of certain migratory game birds.
Waterfowl, (except wood duck, eider ducks, and swans) coot, gallinules, and Wilson snipe or jacksnipe
.—The open season for waterfowl (except wood duck, eider ducks, and swans), coot, gallinules, and Wilson snipe or jacksnipe shall be as follows:
In Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, New York (except Long Island), Pennsylvania, Ohio, West Virginia, Kentucky, Indiana, Michigan, Wisconsin, Illinois, Minnesota, Iowa, Missouri, North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, Colorado, Wyoming, Montana, Idaho, Nevada, and that portion of Oregon and Washington lying east of the summit of the Cascade Mountains the open season shall be from September 16 to December 31;
In Rhode Island, Connecticut, Utah, California, and that portion of Oregon and Washington lying west of the summit of the Cascade Mountains the open season shall be from October 1 to January 15;
In that portion of New York known as Long Island, and in New Jersey, Delaware, Oklahoma, Texas, New Mexico, and Arizona the open season shall be from October 16 to January 31;
In Maryland, the District of Columbia, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Tennessee, Arkansas, and Louisiana the open season shall be from November 1 to January 31; and
In Alaska the open season shall be from September 1 to December 15.
Now, Therefore, I, Warren G. Harding,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby approve and proclaim the foregoing amendatory regulations.
In witness whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed. ,
Done
 in the District of Columbia, this 17th day of May, in the year of our Lord One Thousand Nine Hundred and Twenty-one and of the Independence of the United States of America the One Hundred and Forty-fifth.
WARREN G. HARDING
By the President:
CHARLES E. HUGHES, 
Secretary of State
.