By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas,
 the Act of Congress directing the disposal of lands within a specified part of the Crow Indian Reservation, in the State of Montana, approved April 27, 1904 (33 Stat., 352), among other things, provides: 
That when, in the judgment of the President, no more of the land herein ceded can be disposed of at said price, he may be proclamation, to be repeated at his discretion, sell from time to time the remaining land subject to the provisions of the homestead law or otherwise as he may deem most advantageous, at such price or prices, in such manner, upon such conditions, with such restrictions, and upon such terms as he may deem best for all the interests concerned; 
And Whereas,
 certain lands in the Reservation were sold and entered in the manner provided for by Proclamations of September 28, 1914 (38 Stat., 2029), and April 6, 1917 (40 Stat., 1653), which Proclamations fixed the terms under which the lands might be paid for; 
And Whereas,
 because of droughts and adverse weather conditions an extension of time for payments until the 1921 anniversaries of the dates of the purchases and entries was allowed on certain conditions to certain purchasers and entrymen by Proclamation dated May 5, 1920 (41 Stat., 1793);  
And Whereas,
 it appears that there has been no substantial amelioration in the conditions and that many purchasers and entrymen of lands on the Reservation are or will be unable to make payment in the manner required by the aforesaid Proclamations; 
Now, Therefore, I, Warren G. Harding,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority conferred in me by the said Act of April 27, 1904, do hereby order and direct that an extension of time for payment until the 1922 anniversaries of the dates of the purchases and entries be allowed to all purchasers and entrymen of lands on the Reservation purchased or entered under the said Proclamation of September 28, 1914, or under the said Proclamation of April 6, 1917, upon the payment to the receiver of the district land office of interest at the rate of five per centum per annum on the amounts extended, from the maturities thereof to the expiration of the periods of the extensions. The district land office will promptly notify all purchasers and entrymen entitled to the extension of the manner in which it may be obtained. Those whose payments are in default at the time of the receipt of the notice will be required to make payment of interest on the amounts in default within sixty days from such receipt. Those whose payments are not in default at the time of the receipt of the notice will be allowed sixty days from the maturities of the unpaid amounts within which to make payment of the interest. If the interest is not paid within the time stated, or if, within such time, the amounts in arrears are not paid in full, without interest, the purchases or entries for which the amounts are due will be reported by the district land office to the General Land Office for cancellation. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. 
Done
 in the District of Columbia this 11th day of August, in the year of our Lord Nineteen Hundred and twenty-one and of the Independence of the United States, the One Hundred and Forty-sixth. 
WARREN G. HARDING 
By the President: 
CHARLES E. HUGHES
Secretary of State.