On and after this date the Director of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, James L. Wilmeth, and the Assistant Director, James M.. Fisher, are removed. Louis A. Hill is hereby appointed to be Director, and John P. Perry to be Assistant Director. This action is taken for the good of the service.
The following named offices in the Bureau of Engraving and Printing are hereby abolished, and the present incumbents of these offices are dismissed for the good of the service: (Exception is made of those who are eligible for retirement for age. Such persons shall be placed on the retired list, as of this date), viz:—
All offices of Chief of Division; All offices of Assistant Chief of Division; The office of Custodian of Dies, Rolls and Plates; The office of Chief Clerk; The office of Experimental Engineer; The office of Mechanical Expert and Designer; The office of Superintendent of Work; The office of Superintendent of Picture Engravers; The office of Superintendent of Transfers; The office of Superintendent of Photo-litho. Section; The office of Superintendent of Electrolytic Section; The office of Foreman of Building and Qeaners; The office of Foreman of Garage; The office of Foreman of Plate Cleaners; The office of Storekeeper.
In lieu of the above offices the following offices are hereby established: All offices heretofore known as Chief of Division and Assistant Chief of Division shall hereafter be designated Superintendent of Division and Assistant Superintendent of Division, respectively; the office heretofore known as Custodian of Dies, Rolls and Plates shall be designated Superintendent of Plate Vault; the office heretofore known as Chief, Clerk shall be designated Chief Accountant; the office heretofore known as Foreman of Building and Qeaners shall be designated Superintendent of the Building; the office heretofore known as Foreman of Garage shall be designated Assistant Superintendent of the Building; the office heretofore known as Foreman of Plate Cleaners shall be designated Technical Foreman of Plate Qeaners and the office heretofore known as Storekeeper shall be designated Custodian of Supplies.
All vacancies created by the above described plan of reorganization shall be filled by the Director of the Bureau.
WARREN G. HARDING
THE WHITE HOUSE, March 31, 1922.