By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
For a number of years it has been our custom as a nation to observe as National Fire Prevention Week the week in which the anniversary of the great Chicago fire of 1871 occurs. During those periods public attention has been concentrated upon the seriousness of America's fire waste problem through the press, schools, civic organizations and numerous other groups. The results last year were particularly gratifying for in eighty cities of more than 20,000 population no fire loss was sustained during the Week and in many others the destruction by fire was considerably less than their weekly average for the year.
Reports for the current year indicate that some progress is being made toward checking this tremendous source of waste. It is probable that more attention is being directed to this problem by public spirited officials and citizens than ever before. Numerous organizations, national and local, are devoting much study and effort to it with gratifying results. However, the situation still remains so acute that there should be no diminution in our effort to rid the country of the menace of fire.
Therefore, I, Calvin Coolidge,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week of October 9 to 15, 1927, as National Fire Prevention Week. Each community throughout the land should lay plans for an appropriate observance of Fire Prevention Week and make it the starting point for a program to continue throughout the year. Special attention should be devoted to the prevention of fires in rural districts and in our forests. Because of their limited protective facilities they are often at the mercy of the flames when fire originates. I recommend to all of our citizens that they lay particular emphasis upon the elimination of fire hazards in their homes and places of business and I urge that state and local officials take steps to discover and remedy any defects which may exist in buildings frequented by the public.
In witness whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this 20th day of September in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and twenty-seven and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and fifty-second.
CALVIN COOLIDGE
By the President:
WILBUR J. CARR, 
Acting Secretary of State
.