Whereas, the Congress of the United States has declared that an acute emergency exists by reason of widespread distress and unemployment, disorganization of industry, and the impairment of the agricultural assets supporting the national credit structure, all of which affects the national public interest and welfare, and
Whereas, in order to meet the said emergency and to provide the relief necessary to protect the general welfare of the people, the Congress of the United States has enacted the following acts:
1. The Agricultural Adjustment Act, approved May 12, 1933.
2. The National Industrial Recovery Act, approved June 16, 1933.
3. The Federal Emergency Relief Act of 1933, approved May 12, 1933.
4. Reconstruction Finance Corporation Act, approved January 22, 1932.
5. The Federal Farm Loan Act, approved July 17, 1916.
6. The Farm Credit Act of 1933, approved June 16, 1933.
7. The Emergency Relief and Construction Act of 1932, approved July 21, 1932.
And Whereas, in order, effectively and efficiently, to carry out the provisions of said acts it is expedient and necessary that a corporation be organized with such powers and functions as may be necessary to accomplish the purposes of said acts.
Now, Therefore, under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by the National Industrial Recovery Act of June 16, 1933, it is hereby ordered that an agency, to wit, a corporation, under the laws of Delaware, be created, said corporation to be named the Commodity Credit Corporation.
The governing body of said corporation shall consist of a board of directors composed of eight members, and the following persons, who have been invited and have given their consent to serve, shall be elected by the incorporators as such directors:
Henry A. Wallace, Secretary of Agriculture.
George N. Peek, Administrator, Agricultural Adjustment Administration.
 Oscar Johnston, Director of Finance, Agricultural Adjustment Administration.
Henry Morgenthau, Jr., Governor, Farm Credit Administration.
Herman Oliphant, General Counsel, Farm Credit Administration.
Lynn P. Talley, Assistant to the Directors of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation.
E. B. Schwulst, Special Assistant to the Directors of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation.
Stanley Reed, General Counsel of the Directors of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation.
The office and principal place of business of said corporation outside the State of Delaware shall be in the city of Washington, and branch offices may be established in such places within the United States as the said board of directors shall select and determine by and with the consent of the Secretary of Agriculture and the Governor of the Farm Credit Administration.
The capital stock of such corporation shall consist of 30,000 shares of the par value of $100 each.
The Secretary of Agriculture and the Governor of the Farm Credit Administration are hereby authorized and directed to cause said corporation to be formed, with such articles or certificate of incorporation, and bylaws, which they shall deem requisite and necessary to define the methods by which said corporation shall conduct its business.
The Secretary of Agriculture and the Governor of the Farm Credit Administration are authorized and directed to subscribe for all of said capital stock for the use and benefit of the United States. There is hereby set aside for the purpose of subscribing to the capital stock in said corporation the sum of $3,000,000 out of the appropriation of $100,000,000 authorized by Section 220 of the National Industrial Recovery Act and made by the Fourth Deficiency Act, fiscal year 1933, approved June 16, 1933 (Public No. 77, 73d Congress).
It is hereby further ordered that any outstanding stock standing in the name of the United States shall be voted by the Secretary of Agriculture and the Governor of the Farm Credit Administration jointly, or by such person or persons as the said Secretary of Agriculture and the Governor of the Farm Credit Administration shall appoint as their joint agent or agents for that purpose. The board of directors (other than the initial board of directors elected by the incorporators) shall be elected, and any vacancies thereon shall be filled by the Secretary of Agriculture and the Governor of the Farm Credit Administration jointly, subject to the approval of the President of the United States.