By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the Emergency Relief Appropriation Act of 1935 (Act of April 8,1935, c. 48, 49 Stat. 115), it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. There is hereby created a Committee of Industrial Analysis to complete the summary of the results and accomplishments of the National Recovery Administration. The Secretary of Commerce shall be Chairman of the Committee, and the other members shall be the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Labor, and such other persons, not now officers of the United States, as the President may hereafter specially appoint.
2. The entire Committee of Industrial Analysis shall
(a) Assemble and analyze the statistical information and governmental records of experience of the operations of the various trades and industries heretofore subject to codes of fair competition formulated under the authority of Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act (48 Stat. 195); and
(b) Study the effects of such codes upon trade, industrial and labor conditions in general; and
(c) Make generally available information with respect to industry, particularly hours, wages, child labor and other labor conditions, provided, That nothing in this Order shall be construed to authorize the Committee of Industrial Analysis to collect from the general public current statistical information, or to duplicate the statistical work now being performed by any existing agency of Government.
3. Those members of the Committee of Industrial Analysis who are hereafter specially appointed shall prepare for the President an adequate and final review of the effects of the administration of Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act upon particular industries or problems and as a whole.
4. In order to aid the Committee of Industrial Analysis in carrying out its duties and to furnish employment for and assistance to educational, professional and clerical persons, there is hereby created, in connection with the office of the Secretary of Commerce, a Division of Industrial Economics. This Division of Industrial Economics shall be subject to the general supervision of the Committee of Industrial Analysis and shall assist such Committee in carrying out its functions ....
6. The files, records, equipment and property transferred to the Department of Commerce from the National Recovery Administration by the authority of Executive Order No. 7252, dated December 21, 1935, shall be made available to the Committee of Industrial Analysis and the Division of Industrial Economics. The employees transferred by said Executive Order shall be eligible for, but shall not be automatically entitled to, employment under the authority of paragraph 4 (a) of this Order.
7. This Order shall become effective April 1, 1936.