By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 section 8 of the Joint Resolution approved August 31, 1935, as amended by the Joint Resolution approved May 1, 1937 (50 Stat. 127; U.S.C., Sup. IV, title 22, sec. 245e), provides:
"Whenever, during any war in which the United States is neutral, the President shall find that special restrictions placed on the use of the ports and territorial waters of the United States by the submarines or armed merchant vessels of a foreign state, will serve to maintain peace between the United States and foreign states, or to protect the commercial interests of the United States and its citizens, or to promote the security of the United States, and shall make proclamation thereof, it shall thereafter be unlawful for any such submarine or armed merchant vessel to enter a port or the territorial waters of the United States or to depart therefrom, except under such conditions and subject to such limitations as the President may prescribe. Whenever, in his judgment, the conditions which have caused him to issue his proclamation have ceased to exist, he shall revoke his proclamation and the provisions of this section shall thereupon cease to apply."
Whereas
 there exists a state of war between Germany and France; Poland; and the United Kingdom, India, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the Union of South Africa.
Whereas
 the United States of America is neutral in such war;
Now, Therefore, I, Franklin D. Roosevelt,
 President of the United States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by the foregoing provision of Section 8 of the Joint Resolution approved August 31, 1935, as amended by the Joint Resolution approved May 1, 1937, do by this proclamation find that special restrictions placed on the use of the ports and territorial waters of the United States, exclusive of the Canal Zone, by the submarines of a foreign belligerent state, both commercial submarines and submarines which are ships of war, will serve to maintain peace between the United States and foreign states, to protect the commercial interests of the United States and its citizens, and to promote the security of the United States;
And
 I do further declare and proclaim that it shall hereafter be unlawful for any submarine of France; Germany; Poland; or the United Kingdom, India, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, or the Union of South Africa, to enter ports or territorial waters of the United States, exclusive of the Canal Zone, except submarines of the said belligerent states which are forced into such ports or territorial waters of the United States by force majeure; and in such cases of force majeure, only when such submarines enter ports or territorial waters of the United States while running on the surface with conning tower and superstructure above water and flying the flags of the foreign belligerent states of which they are vessels. Such submarines may depart from ports or territorial waters of the United States only while running on the surface with conning tower and superstructure above water and flying the flags of the foreign belligerent states of which they are vessels.
And I do hereby
 enjoin upon all officers of the United States, charged with the execution of the laws thereof, the utmost diligence in preventing violations of the said joint resolution, and this my proclamation issued thereunder, and in bringing to trial and punishment any offenders against the same.
This proclamation shall continue in full force and effect unless and until modified, revoked or otherwise terminated pursuant to law.
FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT