By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Act entitled "An Act making appropriations for the Navy Department and the Naval Service for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1941, and for other purposes," approved June 11, 1940 (Pub. No. 588, 76th Cong.), and by the Military Appropriation Act, 1941, approved June 13, 1940 (Pub. No. 611, 76th Cong.), and as President of the United States, and in order to provide for emergencies affecting the national security and defense, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. There is hereby established the St. Lawrence Advisory Committee, consisting of Leland Olds, Chairman of the Federal Power Commission, as chairman; A. A. Berle, Assistant Secretary of State; Brigadier General Thomas M. Robins of the Board of Engineers for Rivers and Harbors, Corps of Engineers, United States Army and Gerald V. Cruise, representative of the Trustees of the Power Authority of the State of New York. It shall be the duty of the Committee to advise the President with respect to the matters hereinafter set forth, and to perform such other functions as the President may determine.
2. The Federal Power Commission and the Corps of Engineers, United States Army, are authorized, empowered, and directed —
(a) To make such preliminary investigations as the Advisory Committee may consider appropriate or necessary with respect to development of navigation and hydroelectric power in the International Rapids Section of the St. Lawrence River, including, among other things, (1) preliminary investigations of the potential dam site by means of core borings, test pits, soil analyses, etc., (2) preliminary surveys of the lands necessary for such development, and investigation of the titles to such lands, and (3) preparation of preliminary plans and specifications.
(b) To make periodic reports, with recommendations to the President, of the results of the aforesaid investigations.
(c) To consult and cooperate with appropriate agencies of the Canadian Government.
3. In the performance of their functions and duties under this order the Federal Power Commission and the Corps of Engineers, United States Army, may avail themselves of the services, records, reports, and information of the Executive departments and other agencies of the Government.
4. The Federal Power Commission and Corps of Engineers, United States Army, shall have authority to appoint, without regard to the civil service laws, such officers, experts, and employees as they may deem necessary to carry out their functions under this order, and to prescribe their functions, duties, responsibilities and tenure.