By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 section 3 of the joint resolution of Congress approved November 4, 1939, provides as follows:
(a) Whenever the President shall have issued a proclamation under the authority of section 1 (a), and he shall thereafter find that the protection of citizens of the United States so requires, he shall, by proclamation, define combat areas, and thereafter it shall be unlawful, except under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed, for any citizen of the United States or any American vessel to proceed into or through any such combat area. The combat areas so defined may be made to apply to surface vessels or aircraft, or both.
(b) In case of the violation of many of the provisions of this section by any American vessel, or any owner or officer thereof, such vessel, owner, or officer shall be fined not more than $50,000 or imprisoned for not more than five years, or both. Should the owner of such vessel be a corporation, organization, or association, each officer or director participating in the violation shall be liable to the penalty hereinabove prescribed. In case of the violation of this section by any citizen traveling as a passenger, such passenger may be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned for not more than two years, or both.
(c) The President may from time to time modify or extend any proclamation issued under the authority of this section, when the conditions which shall have caused him to issue any such proclamation shall have ceased to exist he shall revoke such proclamation and the provisions of this section shall thereupon cease to apply, except as to offenses committed prior to such revocation.
And Whereas
 it is further provided by section 13 of the said joint resolution that
The President may, from time to time, promulgate such rules and regulations, not inconsistent with law as may be necessary and proper to carry out any of the provisions of this joint resolution; and he may exercise any power or authority conferred on him by this joint resolution through such officer or officers, or agency or agencies, as he shall direct.
And Whereas
 on November 4, 1939, I issued a proclamation in accordance with the provision of law quoted above defining a combat area.
Now, Therefore, I, Franklin D. Roosevelt,
 President of the United States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority conferred on me by section 3 of the joint resolution of Congress approved November 4, 1939, do hereby find that the protection of citizens of the United States requires that there be an extension of the combat area defined in my proclamation of November 4, 1939, through or into which extended combat area it shall be unlawful, except under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed, for any citizen of the United States or any American vessel, whether a surface vessel or an aircraft, to proceed.
And I do hereby
 define the extended combat area as follows:
All the navigable waters within the limits set forth hereafter.
Beginning at the intersection of the North Coast of Spain with the meridian of 2° 45' longitude west of Greenwich;
Thence due north to a point in 43° 54' north latitude;
Thence by a thumb line to a point in 45° north latitude, 20° west longitude;Thence due north to 58° north latitude;
Thence by a rhumb line to a point in 76° 30' north latitude, 16°35' east longitude;
Thence by a rhumb line to a point in 70° north latitude, 44° east longitude;
Thence due south to the mainland of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics;
Thence along the coastline of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Finland, Norway, Sweden, the Baltic Sea and dependent waters thereof, Germany, Denmark, the Netherlands, Belgium, France, and Spain to the point of beginning.
And I do hereby
 enjoin upon all officers of the United States charged with the execution of the laws thereof, the utmost diligence in preventing violations of the said joint resolution and in bringing to trial and punishment any offenders against the same.
And I do hereby
 delegate to the Secretary of State the power to exercise any power or authority conferred on me by the said joint resolution as made effective by this my proclamation issued thereunder, which is not specifically delegated by Executive order to some other officer or agency of this Government, and the power to promulgate such rules and regulations not inconsistent with law as may be necessary and proper to carry out any of its provisions.
FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT