WHEREAS the Bureau of Reclamation is constructing the Grand Coulee Dam Project pursuant to authority delegated under Section a of the Act of August 30, 1935, 49 Stat. 1028, 1039, and in connection therewith will operate and maintain facilities for the generation of electrical power and energy; and
WHEREAS the Bonneville Power Administrator is now disposing of power and energy generated at the Bonneville Project; and
WHEREAS integration and coordination of the electrical facilities of the two projects will be facilitated by a mutual exchange of the electrical power and energy generated at the Bonneville Project and the Grand Coulee Dam Project and by marketing the power and energy from both projects through a single agency:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States by Section a of the Act of August 30, 1935, supra, and supplementing my letter of January 29, 1936, to the Secretary of the Interior, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. The Bonneville Power Administrator is hereby designated, under the supervision and direction of the Secretary of the Interior, as agent for the sale and distribution of electrical power and energy generated at the Grand Coulee Dam Project and not required for operation of that Project, including its irrigation features.
2. The Administrator shall construct, operate, and maintain the transmission lines and substations and appurtenant structures and facilities necessary for marketing the power and energy delivered to him from the Grand Coulee Dam Project; except that the Bureau of Reclamation may construct, operate, or maintain such transmission facilities as the Secretary of the Interior, in his discretion, deems necessary or desirable. The Bureau of Reclamation and the Administrator, with the approval of the Secretary, shall agree upon and schedule the installation of additional generators at the Grand Coulee Dam Project.
3. The Bureau of Reclamation, with the approval of the Secretary, shall provide the Administrator with a basic schedule of the power and energy to be available to him from the Grand Coulee Dam Project. The Bureau, with the Secretary's approval, may revise the schedule from time to time, except that no revision decreasing the amount of power and energy available under an existing schedule shall be effective unless agreed to by the Administrator. The Bureau will make power and energy from the Grand Coulee Dam Project available to the Administrator in accordance with these schedules.
4. The Administrator shall market the power and energy delivered to him from the Grand Coulee Dam Project at rates to be fixed by the Secretary of the Interior consistently with all applicable provisions of law and allocations of cost determined as provided thereunder. From time to time the Secretary of the Interior, consistently with all applicable provisions of law and allocations of cost made pursuant thereto, shall determine the basis on which the Administrator and the Bureau shall compute the returns to be made to the Bureau for power and energy delivered to the Administrator from the Grand Coulee Dam Project pursuant to this order. All receipts collected by the Administrator from transmission and sale of power and energy shall be deposited with the Treasurer of the United States for credit to a special account, subject to allocation by the Secretary of the Interior in accordance with the computations above provided for. Upon certification by the Secretary of the Interior, the amounts of receipts properly allocable to the Bonneville Project shall be covered into the Treasury of the United States to the credit of miscellaneous receipts subject to the provisions of section 2 of the act of August 20, 1937, 50 Stat. 731, 732. The amounts certified by the Secretary of the Interior as being allocable to the Grand Coulee Dam Project shall be covered into the Treasury for credit to the Reclamation Fund to the extent authorized by law.
5. In aid of this delegation of authority to the Secretary of the Interior, the Commissioner of the Bureau of Reclamation and the Bonneville Power Administrator shall, subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior and the terms of this order, enter into any and all agreements that are necessary for the interconnection of the Bonneville Project and the Grand Coulee Dam Project and to carry out the provisions of this order.