By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 it appears that certain lands adjoining the Lamar Unit of the Ocmulgee National Monument in Georgia, which have been donated to the United States, contain evidence of an old Indian stockade and other objects of historical interest; and 
Whereas
 it appears that it would be in the public interest to set such lands aside for national monument purposes: 
Now, Therefore, I, Franklin D. Roosevelt,
 President of the United States of America, under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 2 of the act of June 8, 1906, ch. 3060, 34 Stat. 225 (U.S.C., title 16, sec. 431), do proclaim that the following-described lands in Bibb County, Georgia, are hereby set aside for national monument purposes and shall be administered as a part of the Ocmulgee National Monument: 
Beginning at a concrete monument marking the southeast corner of the Lamar Unit of the Ocmulgee National Monument from which the most easterly corner of Macon City Limits in the center of Ocmulgee River bears approximately North 31 degrees 30' West 8560 feet, more or less; thence South 78 degrees 30' West 1500.0 feet along the south boundary of the Lamar Unit to the southwest corner thereof; thence South 11 degrees 30' East 290.4 feet; thence North 67 degrees 32' East 1527.85 feet to the point of beginning, containing 5 acres, more or less. 
Warning is hereby expressly given to all unauthorized persons not to appropriate, injure, destroy, or remove any part or feature of this monument, and not to locate or settle upon any of the lands thereof. 
The Director of the National Park Service, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, shall have the supervision, management, and control of the monument as provided in the act of Congress entitled "An act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes," approved August 25, 1916, 39 Stat. 535 (U.S.C., title 16, secs. 1 and 2), and acts supplementary thereto or amendatory thereof. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this 13th day of June in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and sixty-fifth. 
FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT 
By the President: 
CORDELL HULL 
Secretary of State.