EXECUTIVE ORDER 8953
ESTABLISHING LOS ANGELES-LONG BEACH HARBOR NAVAL DEFENSIVE SEA AREA
November 27, 1941
CALIFORNIA
By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the provisions of section 44 of the Criminal Code, as amended (U.S.C., title 18, sec. 96), the following-described area is hereby established for purposes of national defense as a defensive sea area, to be known as the 'Los Angeles-Long Beach Harbor Naval Defensive Sea Area':
All United States territorial waters of Los Angeles-Long Beach Harbor and its approaches and tributaries from the contour line of extreme high water on the shores of these waters, as shown on the latest U.S.C. and G.S. charts, to the following seaward limits:
A line running along bearing 160 degrees true from Whites Point, California, in approximate Latitude 33 degrees 42'51" North, Longitude 118 degrees 19' West, to the seaward limit of United States territorial waters;
A line running along bearing 210 degrees true from a point on the shore of Huntington Beach, California, in Latitude 33 degrees 39'47" North, Longitude 118 degrees 00'41" West, to the seaward limit of United States territorial waters; and
A line running along the seaward limit of United States territorial waters between the above-described bearing lines.
A vessel not proceeding under United States naval or other United States authorized supervision shall not enter or navigate the waters of the Los Angeles-Long Beach Harbor Naval Defensive Sea Area except during daylight, when good visibility conditions prevail, and then only after specific permission has been obtained. Advance arrangements for entry into or navigation through or within the Los Angeles-Long Beach Harbor Naval Defensive Sea Area must be made, preferably by application to a United States Naval District Headquarters in advance of sailing, or by radio or visual communication on approaching the seaward limits of the area. If radio telegraphy is used, the call 'NQO' shall be made on a frequency of 500 Kcs and permission to enter the port requested. The name of the vessel, purpose of entry, and name of the master must be given in the request. If visual communications are used, the procedure shall be essentially the same.
A vessel entering or navigating the waters of the Los Angeles-Long Beach Harbor Naval Defensive Sea Area does so at its own risk.
Even though permission has been obtained, it is incumbent upon a vessel entering the Los Angeles-Long Beach Harbor Naval Defensive Sea Area to obey any further instructions received from the United States Navy or other United States authority.
A vessel may expect supervision of its movements within the Los Angeles-Long Beach Harbor Naval Defensive Sea Area, either through surface craft or aircraft. Such controlling surface craft and aircraft shall be identified by a prominent display of the Union Jack.
The loading or unloading by vessels of oil fuel or other inflammable or explosive materials shall be under the control of the local naval authority, who shall require such loading or unloading to be accomplished in such manner and at such times as will safeguard the other activities within the Los Angeles-Long Beach Harbor Naval Defensive Sea Area essential to the national defense.
These regulations are subject to amplification by the local United States naval authority as necessary to meet local circumstances and conditions.
When a United States Maritime Control Area is established adjacent to or abutting upon the Los Angeles-Long Beach Harbor Naval Defensive Sea Area, it shall be assumed that permission to enter, and other instructions issued by proper authority, shall apply to any one continuous passage through or within both areas.
Any master of a vessel or other person within the Los Angeles-Long Beach Harbor Naval Defensive Sea Area who shall disregard these regulations, or shall fail to obey an order of United States naval authority to stop or heave-to, or shall perform any act threatening the efficiency of mines or other defenses or the safety of navigation, or shall take any action inimical to the interests of the United States, may be detained therein by force of arms and renders himself liable to attack by the armed forces of the United States, and liable to prosecution as provided for in section 44 of the Criminal Code, as amended (U.S.C., title 18, sec. 96).
All United States Government authorities shall place at the disposal of the naval authorities their facilities for aiding in the enforcement of these regulations. The Governor of the State of California, the local municipal officials, and the local civilian defense agencies are called upon to render the local naval authorities all possible assistance in the enforcement of these regulations.
The Secretary of the Navy shall be charged with the publication and enforcement of these regulations.
This order supersedes Executive Order No. 8403 of May 7, 1940, entitled 'Establishing Los Angeles-Long Beach Harbor Naval Defensive Sea Area-- California'.
FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT
THE WHITE HOUSE,
November 27, 1941.
Exec. Order No. 8953, 6 FR 6123, 1941 WL 4057 (Pres.)