BY VIRTUE of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes of the United States, and in order to define further the functions and duties of the Office for Emergency Management in the Executive Office of the President with respect to the unlimited emergency as declared by the President on May 27,1941, and for the purpose of facilitating the dissemination of factual information to the citizens of the country on the progress of the defense effort and on the defense policies and activities of the Government, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. There is established within the Office for Emergency Management of the Executive Office of the President an Office of Facts and Figures, at the head of which shall be a Director appointed by the President. The Director shall discharge his responsibilities and duties under the direction and supervision of the President. The Director shall receive no salary or other remuneration for his services, but shall be entitled to actual and necessary transportation, subsistence, and other expenses incidental to the performance of his duties.
2. Subject to such policies and directions as the President may from' time to time prescribe, the Office of Facts and Figures shall formulate programs designed to facilitate a widespread and accurate understanding of the status and progress of the national defense effort and of the defense policies and activities of the Government; and advise with the several departments and agencies of the Government concerning the dissemination of such defense information. The Office of Facts and Figures shall rely upon the services and facilities of existing agencies of the Government for the dissemination of information.
3. The several departments and agencies of the Government shall make available to the Director, upon his request, such information and data as he may deem necessary to facilitate the most coherent and comprehensive presentation to the Nation of the facts and figures of national defense.
4. There shall be in the Office of Facts and Figures an Advisory Committee consisting of the Director as chairman and such representatives of the Federal Government and other members as he may determine. The members of the Advisory Committee shall serve without compensation, but shall be entitled to necessary travel, subsistence, and other expenses incidental to the performance of their duties.
5. Within the limits of such funds as may be made available to the Office of Facts and Figures, the Director may employ necessary personnel and make provision for the necessary supplies, facilities, and services. The Office of Facts and Figures shall use such fiscal, personnel, and other general business services and facilities as may be made available to it through the Office for Emergency Management.