By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
I, Franklin D. Roosevelt,
 President of the United States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 5(b) of the Act of October 6, 1917 (40 Stat. 415) as amended and Section 6 of the Act of July 2, 1940 (54 Stat. 714) as amended and by virtue of all other authority vested in me, and by virtue of the existence of a period of unlimited national emergency and finding that this Proclamation is necessary in the interest of national defense, do hereby order and proclaim the following:
SECTION 1. The Secretary of State, acting in conjunction with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Commerce, the Administrator of Export Control, and the Coordinator of Commercial and Cultural Relations Between the American Republics, shall from time to time cause to be prepared an appropriate list of
(a) certain persons deemed to be, or to have been acting or purporting to act, directly or indirectly, for the benefit of, or under the direction of, or under the jurisdiction of, or on behalf of, or in collaboration with Germany or Italy or a national thereof; and
(b) certain persons to whom, or on whose behalf, or for whose account, the exportation directly or indirectly of any article or material exported from the United States, is deemed to be detrimental to the interest of national defense.
In similar manner and in the interest of national defense, additions to and deletions from such list shall be made from time to time. Such list and any additions thereto or deletions therefrom shall be filed pursuant to the provisions of the Federal Register Act and such list shall be known as "The Proclaimed List of Certain Blocked Nationals."
SECTION 2. Any person, so long as his name appears in such list, shall, for the purpose of Section 5(b) of the Act of October 6, 1917, as amended, and for the purpose of this Proclamation, be deemed to be a national of a foreign country, and shall be treated for all purposes under Executive Order No. 8389, as amended, as though he were a national of Germany or Italy. All the terms and provisions of Executive Order No. 8389, as amended, shall be applicable to any such person so long as his name appears in such list, and to any property in which any such person has or has had an interest, to the same extent that such terms and provisions are applicable to nationals of Germany or Italy, and to property in which nationals of Germany or Italy have or have had an interest.
SECTION 3. The exportation from the United States directly or indirectly to, or on behalf of, or for the account of any person, so long as his name appears on such list, of any article or material the exportation of which is prohibited or curtailed by any proclamation heretofore or hereafter issued under the authority of Section 6 of the Act of July 2, 1940, as amended, or of any other military equipment or munitions, or component parts thereof, or machinery, tools, or material, or supplies necessary for the manufacture, servicing, or operation thereof, is hereby prohibited under Section 6 of the Act of July 2, 1940, as amended, except (1) when authorized in each case by a license as provided for in Proclamation No. 2413 of July 2, 1940, or in Proclamation No. 2465 of March 4, 1941, as the case may be, and (2) when the Administrator of Export Control under my direction has determined that such prohibition of exportation would work an unusual hardship on American interests.
SECTION 4. The term "person" as used herein means an individual, partnership, association, corporation, or other organization.
The term "United States" as used herein means the United States and any place subject to the jurisdiction thereof, including the Philippine Islands, the Canal Zone, and the District of Columbia and any other territory, dependency, or possession of the United States.
SECTION 5. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed in any manner to limit or restrict the provisions of the said Executive Order No. 8389, as amended, or the authority vested thereby in the Secretary of the Treasury and the Attorney General. So far as the said Executive Order No. 8389, as amended, is concerned, "The Proclaimed List of Certain Blocked Nationals," authorized by this Proclamation, is merely a list of certain persons with respect to whom and with respect to whose property interests the public is specifically put on notice that the provisions of such Executive Order are applicable; and the fact that any person is not named in such list shall in no wise be deemed to mean that such person is not a national of a foreign country designated in such Order, within the meaning thereof, or to affect in any manner the application of such order to such person or to the property interests of such person.
FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT