By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes and by the Act of March 11, 1941, entitled "An Act to Promote the Defense of the United States" (hereafter referred to as the Act), in order to define further the functions and duties of the Office for Emergency Management of the Executive Office of the President in respect to the national emergency as declared by the President on September 8, 1939, and in order to provide for the effective administration of said Act in the interest of national defense, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. There is established within the Office for Emergency Management of the Executive Office of the President the Division of Defense Aid Reports, at the head of which shall be an Executive Officer appointed by the President. The Executive Officer shall receive compensation at such rate as the President shall approve and, in addition, shall be entitled to actual and necessary transportation, subsistence, and other expenses incidental to the performance of his duties.
2. Subject to such policies and directions as the President may from time to time prescribe, the Division of Defense Aid Reports shall perform and discharge the following described duties and responsibilities:
a. Provide a central channel for the clearance of transactions and reports, and coordinate the processing of requests for aid under the Act.
b. Maintain such system of records and summary accounts to be approved by the Bureau of the Budget, as may be necessary for adequate administrative and financial control over operations under the Act and as will currently reflect the status of all such operations.
c. Prepare such reports as may be necessary to keep the President informed of progress under the Act; assist in the preparation of reports pursuant to section 5b of the Act; and serve generally as a clearing house of information for agencies participating in the program.
d. Perform such other duties relating to defense aid activities as the President may from time to time prescribe.
3. Within the limitation of such funds as may be allocated for the Division of Defense Aid Reports by the President, the Executive Officer may employ necessary personnel and make provision for the necessary supplies, facilities, and services. In so far as practicable, the Division of Defense Aid Reports shall use such general business services and facilities as may be made available to it through the Office for Emergency Management or other agencies of the Government.