EXECUTIVE ORDER 9285
ESTABLISHING THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TYPHUS COMMISSION
December 24, 1942
By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States and as Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, and for the purposes of protecting the members of the armed forces from typhus fever and preventing its introduction into the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. There is hereby established in the War Department, under the supervision and direction of the Secretary of War, a commission to be known as the United States of America Typhus Commission, hereinafter referred to as the Commission. The Commission shall serve with the Army of the United States, and shall consist of a Director, appointed by the Secretary of War, such officers of the Army Medical Corps as may be detailed as members thereof by the Secretary of War, such officers of the Navy Medical Corps and the Public Health Service as may be detailed as members thereof, upon request of the Secretary of War, by the Secretary of the Navy or the Federal Security Administrator, and such other persons as may be appointed as members thereof by the Secretary of War.
2. The Director of the Commission is authorized and directed to formulate and effectuate a program for the study of typhus fever and the control thereof, both within and without the United States, when it is, or may become, a threat to the military population. The operations of the Commission abroad shall be carried out in collaboration with the Department of State.
3. The Director of the Commission is authorized to employ necessary technical and nonprofessional personnel, and to make such expenditures, within the limits of funds made available to the Commission by the War Department, Navy Department, United States Public Health Service, or other Governmental agencies, as may be deemed necessary by him to accomplish the purposes of this order. Members of the armed forces may be detailed for duty with the Commission.
4. The Director shall take steps to secure the cooperation, assistance, and services of other Governmental agencies; make arrangements for the visiting by members of the Commission of such areas of neutrl or allied nations as may be necessary to further the study of typhus fever; arrange for the analysis, study, and publication of scientific data and material obtained in such field investigations; establish and maintain typhus fever study units at appropriate Governmental laboratories; and procure such laboratory space, clinical facilities, and equipment as may be necessary to accomplish the purposes of this order. He shall collaborate with the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the Navy, the Administrator of the Federal Security Agency, and appropriate civilian organizations, when necessary, regarding the procurement of personnel and equipment in connection with the activities of the Commission, keep the Secretary of War informed in regard to the progress made in carrying out this order, and perform such other duties as from time to time the Secretary of War may assign to him.
5. All Executive departments, independent establishments, and other Federal agencies are hereby authorized and directed to assist the Secretary of War and the Director in carrying out this order, including the furnishing of equipment, transportation, and personnel facilities and assistance.
6. There is hereby established a United States of America Typhus Commission Medal, with suitable appurtenances, which shall be awarded by the President of the United States or at his direction, to any person who may render or contribute meritorious service in connection with the work of the Commission.
FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT
THE WHITE HOUSE,
December 24, 1942.
Exec. Order No. 9285, 7 FR 10899, 1942 WL 4250 (Pres.)