EXECUTIVE ORDER 9341
DIRECTING THE DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF DEFENSE TRANSPORTATION TO TAKE CONTROL OF THE PROPERTIES OF THE AMERICAN RAILROAD COMPANY OF PORTO RICO
WHEREAS the operations of the American Railroad Company of Porto Rico have been interrupted by a labor dispute; and
WHEREAS the operation of this railroad is necessary for the movement of supplies and food for the armed forces and the civilian population and is otherwise essential to the effective prosecution of the war:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, and as President of the United States and as Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy, it is hereby ordered:
1. The Director of the Office of Defense Transportation is directed to take immediate possession of all real and personal property, franchises, rights, facilities, funds and other assets, tangible and intangible, of the American Railroad Company of Porto Rico, and to operate or arrange for the operation of such railroad in such manner as he deems necessary for the successful prosecution of the war, through or with the aid of such public or private agencies, persons or corporations as he may designate.
2. The Director of the Office of Defense Transportation shall manage or arrange for the management of said railroad under such terms and conditions of employment as he deems advisable and proper, pending termination of the existing labor dispute. Nothing herein shall be deemed to render inapplicable insular or Federal laws concerning the health, safety, security and employment standards of the employees of said railroad.
3. The National War Labor Board shall proceed, forthwith, after due investigation and hearing, to make a final determination of the existing labor dispute between the American Railroad Company of Porto Rico and its employees, which determination when made shall be retroactive to the date of Federal possession of the properties of said railroad.
4. Except with the prior written consent of the Director of the Office of Defense Transportation, no attachment by mesne or garnishee process or on execution or otherwise shall be levied on or against any of the real and personal property, franchises, rights, facilities, funds and other assets, tangible and intangible, of the American Railroad Company of Porto Rico in the possession of the Director of the Office of Defense Transportation. As a part of the terms and conditions of the possession and operation directed to be taken hereunder, the Director of the Office of Defense Transportation is authorized in his discretion to make advances from the net cash earnings of his operation of the railroad, in such amounts and on such terms as he deems desirable, for the discharge of lawful obligations of the American Railroad Company of Porto Rico, and for the preservation of the real and personal property, corporate organization and franchises, rights, facilities, funds and other assets, tangible and intangible, of the railroad. Advances pursuant to the authority of this paragraph shall not be repayable before the time of final determination, by settlement or adjudication, of any claim of the railroad for compensation by reason of action taken pursuant to this order.
5. Such real and personal property, franchises, rights, facilities, funds and other assets, tangible and intangible, of the American Railroad Company of Porto Rico as the Director of the Office of Defense Transportation deems unnecessary to carry on the operation of such railroad may, from time to time, in his discretion, be returned to the railroad.
6. Possession and operation hereunder shall be terminated when the President determines that such possession and operation are no longer required for the successful prosecution of the war.
7. Upon the request of the Director of the Office of Defense Transportation, the Secretary of War shall take such action, if any, as he may deem necessary or desirable to provide protection to the railroad property and to persons working for or seeking employment by the railroad.
8. The Director of the Office of Defense Transportation in the exercise of his functions under this order shall consult with and cooperate with the Secretary of the Interior and the government of Puerto Rico.
FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT
THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 13, 1943.
Exec. Order No. 9341, 8 FR 6323, 1943 WL 4094 (Pres.)