By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the United States, particularly the First War Powers Act, 1941, as President of the United States and as Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. There is hereby established in the Office of War Mobilization, the Surplus War Property Administration (hereinafter referred to as the "Administration"), the powers and functions of which, subject to the general supervision of the Director of War Mobilization, shall be exercised by a Surplus War Property Administrator (hereinafter referred to as the "Administrator"), to be appointed by the Director of War Mobilization.
2. With the assistance of a Surplus War Property Policy Board, composed of a representative from each of the following: State Department, Treasury Department, War Department, Navy Department, Justice Department, Reconstruction Finance Corporation, Smaller War Plants Corporation, United States Maritime Commission, War Production Board, Bureau of the Budget, War Food Administration, Federal Works Agency, Civil Aeronautics Board, and the Foreign Economic Administration, it shall be the function of the Administration, to the full extent that such matters are provided for or permitted by law:
(a) To have general supervision and direction of the handling and disposition of surplus war property.
(b) To have general supervision and direction of the transfer of any surplus war property in the possession of any Government agency to any other Government agency whenever in the judgment of the Administration such transfer is appropriate.
(c) Unless otherwise directed by the Director of War Mobilization, to assign, so far as it is deemed feasible by the Administration, surplus war property for disposition, as follows: consumer goods to the Procurement Division of the Department of the Treasury; capital and producers' goods, including plants, equipment, materials, scrap, and other industrial property, to a subsidiary of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, created pursuant to Section 5d (3) of the Reconstruction Finance Act, as amended; ships and maritime property to the United States Maritime Commission; and food to the War Food Administration; provided that surplus war property to be disposed of outside the United States, unless otherwise directed by the Director of War Mobilization, shall be assigned, so far as it is deemed feasible by the Administration, to the Foreign Economic Administration.
3. All functions, powers, and duties relating to the transfer or disposition of surplus war property, heretofore conferred by law on any Government agency may, to the extent necessary to carry out the provisions of this Order, be exercised also by the Administration.
4. The Administrator may prescribe regulations and issue directions necessary to effectuate the purposes of this Order; and no Government agency shall transfer or dispose of surplus war property in contravention thereof. Each Government agency shall submit such information and reports with respect to surplus war property and in such form and at such times as the Administrator shall direct. When requested by the Administration, a Government agency shall execute such documents for the transfer of title or for any other purpose or take such steps as the Administration shall determine to be necessary or proper to transfer or dispose of surplus war property or otherwise to carry out the provisions of this Order.
5. The Administrator may perform the functions and exercise the powers, authority, and discretion conferred on the Administration by this Order by such officials and such agencies and in such manner as the Administrator, subject to the provisions of this Order, may determine. In carrying out the purposes of this Order, the Administration may utilize the services of any other Government agency. The Administration, within the limit of funds which may be made available, may employ necessary personnel and make provision for supplies, facilities, and services necessary to discharge the responsibilities of the Administration.
6. As used in this Order:
(a) "Government agency" means any executive department, independent establishment, agency, commission, board, bureau, division, administration, office, service, independent regulatory commission or board, and any Government-owned or Government-controlled corporation.
 (b) "Surplus War Property" means any property, real or personal, including but not limited to plants, facilities, equipment, machines, accessories, parts, assemblies, products, commodities, materials, and supplies in the possession of or controlled by any Government agency, whether new or used, in use or in storage, which are in excess of the needs of such agency or are not required for the performance of the duties and functions of such agency and which are determined, subject to the authority of the Office of War Mobilization, to be surplus by such agency.
7. All prior Executive Orders, insofar as they are in conflict herewith, are amended accordingly.