By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the United States, particularly the First War Powers Act, 1941, as President of the United States and as Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. There is hereby established in the Office of War Mobilization a Retraining and Reemployment Administration (herein after referred to as the Administration), the functions of which, subject to the general supervision of the Director of War Mobilization, shall be exercised by a Retraining and Reemployment Administrator (hereinafter referred to as the Administrator) to be appointed by the Director of War Mobilization.
2. With the assistance of a Retraining and Reemployment Policy Board, composed of a representative of the Department of Labor, the Federal Security Agency, the War Manpower Commission, the Selective Service System, the Veterans Administration, the Civil Service Commission, the War Department, the Navy Department, and the War Production Board, it shall be the function of the Administration:
(a) To have general supervision and direction of the activities of all Government agencies relating to the retraining and reemployment of persons discharged or released from the armed services or other war work, including all work directly affected by the cessation of hostilities or the reduction of the war program; to issue necessary regulations and directions in connection therewith; and to advise with the appropriate committees of the Congress as to the steps taken or to be taken with respect thereto.
(b) In consultation with the Government agencies concerned, to develop programs for the orderly absorption into other employment of persons discharged or released from the armed services or other war work, including adequate provisions for vocational training, for the finding of jobs for persons so discharged or released, for assisting those persons and their families pending their absorption into employment, and for dealing with the problems connected with the release of workers from industries not readily convertible to peacetime use. In developing such programs, special regard shall be given to the necessity of integrating them with wartime manpower controls.
(c) In consultation with the Government agencies concerned, to develop programs for the adequate care of persons discharged or released from the armed services, including physical and occupational therapy for the wounded and disabled and the resumption of education interrupted by the war.
3. The Retraining and Reemployment Policy Board shall invite representatives of other Government agencies to participate in its deliberations when matters specially affecting them are under consideration.
4. The functions conferred on the Administration by this Order shall be performed through existing Government agencies and officials so far as feasible and in such manner as the Administrator shall determine. The Administration, within the limit of funds which may be made available, may employ necessary personnel and make provision for supplies, facilities, and services necessary to discharge the responsibilities of the Administration.
5. All prior Executive Orders, so far as they are in conflict herewith, are amended accordingly.