WHEREAS after an investigation I find and proclaim that the plants and facilities of the United States Rubber Company, located in or around Detroit, Michigan, are equipped for the manufacture and production of articles and materials that are required for the war effort, or that are useful in connection therewith; that there are existing interruptions of the operation of said plants and facilities as a result of a labor disturbance; that the war effort will be unduly impeded or delayed by these interruptions; and that the exercise, as hereinafter specified, of the powers vested in me is necessary to insure, in the interests of the war effort, the operation of these plants and facilities;
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the power and authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, including Section 9 of the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940 (54 Stat. 892) as amended by the War Labor Disputes Act (57 Stat. 163), as President of the United States and Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. The Secretary of War is hereby authorized and directed through and with the aid of any persons or instrumentalities that he may designate to take possession of the plants and facilities of the United States Rubber Company, located in or around Detroit, Michigan, and, t the extent that he may deem necessary, of any real or personal property, and other assets wherever situated, used in connection with the operations thereof; to operate or to arrange for the operation of the plants and facilities in any manner that he deems necessary for the successful prosecution of the war; to exercise any contractual or other rights of the United States Rubber Company, and to continue the employment of, or to employ, any persons, and to do any other thing that he may deem necessary for, or incidental to, the operation of the said plants and facilities and the production, sale and distribution of the products thereof; and to take any other steps that he deems necessary to carry out the provisions and purposes of this order.
2. The Secretary of War shall operate the said plants and facilities in accordance with the terms and conditions of employment which are in effect at the time possession thereof is taken, subject to the provisions of Section 5 of the War Labor Disputes Act.
3. The Secretary of War shall permit the management of the plants and facilities taken under the provisions of this order to continue with its managerial functions to the maximum degree possible, consistent with the aims of this order.
4. The Secretary of War is authorized to take such action, if any, as he may deem necessary or desirable to provide protection for the plants and all persons employed or seeking employment therein, and their families and homes. All Federal agencies, including but not limited to the War Manpower Commission, the National Selective Service System, and the Department of Justice, are directed to cooperate with the Secretary of War to the fullest extent possible in carrying out the purposes of this order. Upon request of the Secretary of War, the Department of Justice, through the Federal Bureau of Investigation, shall immediately undertake an investigation of any matter affecting the operation of said plants, facilities, and property.
5. Possession, control, and operation of any plant or facility, or part thereof, taken under this order shall be terminated by the Secretary of War within 60 days after he determines that the productive efficiency of the plant, facility, or part thereof prevailing prior to the existing interruptions of production, referred to in the recitals of this order, has been restored.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
July 30, 1945