By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the Statutes, and as President and as Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. In accordance with the responsibilities undertaken by the United States at the Crimea Conference in February 1945 to assist the people in any European liberated state in securing the earliest possible establishment through free elections of governments responsive to the will of the people, and in response to the invitation extended to the United States and other Allied Governments by the Government of Greece, I appoint Henry F. Grady of California, effective as of October 25, 1945, as my representative to head the United States group which will participate with representatives of other Allied Governments in observing the forthcoming elections in Greece.
2. The Representative named herein is authorized to select and recommend to the President or to the Secretary of State or the Secretary of War necessary personnel to assist in the performance of his duties hereunder. The Secretary of State and the Secretary of War are authorized to assist the Representative named herein in the performance of his duties hereunder, and to employ such personnel and make such expenditures, within the limits of appropriate appropriations now or hereafter available for the purpose, as may be necessary to accomplish the purposes of this order, and the Secretary of War may make available, assign, or detail for duty with the Representative named herein such members of the military forces, not exceeding five hundred in number, and other personnel as may be requested for such purposes.
3. The Representative named herein shall have the personal rank of Ambassador and shall receive such compensation and allowance for expenses as may be authorized by the Secretary of State. Other necessary personnel employed to assist the Representative named herein in the performance of his duties shall likewise receive such compensation and allowance for expenses as may appropriately be authorized by the Secretary of State or the Secretary of War: Provided, however, That any personnel now in the employ of the Government shall serve without additional compensation but shall receive such allowance for expenses as may be authorized by the Secretary of State or the Secretary of War.
4. The Representative named herein is authorized to cooperate with, and receive the assistance of, any foreign Government to the extent deemed necessary by him to accomplish the purposes of this order.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
November 16, 1945