Whereas the Surplus Property Board, pursuant to the provisions of the Surplus Property Act of 1944, has by Regulation No. 1, as amended, effective on May 1, 1945, designated the Department of Commerce as the disposal agency within the continental United States, its territories, and possessions, for certain categories of surplus property for which the Department of the Treasury has heretofore been the disposal agency:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes of the United States, particularly by the first War Powers Act, 1941, as President of the United States and Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. The Office of Surplus Property of the Procurement Division of the Department of the Treasury is hereby transferred to the Department of Commerce.
2. All records, property (including office equipment), and funds (including all unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, and other available funds) of the Procurement Division which are used primarily in the administration of the functions, powers, and duties of the Department of the Treasury as a disposal agency under the Surplus Property Act, all contracts of the Procurement Division relating primarily to the administration of such functions, powers, and duties, and all personnel of the Procurement Division engaged primarily in the administration of such functions, powers, and duties, as the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Commerce shall jointly determine, shall be transferred to the Department of Commerce for use in connection with the exercise and performance of such functions, powers, and duties.
3. The Department of the Treasury and the Department of Commerce shall supply and render, each to the other, materials, supplies, equipment, work, and services in accordance with section 7 of the act of May 21, 1920, as amended (U.S.C. title 31, sec. 686), to the extent and for such period after the effective date hereof as may be mutually agreeable to the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Commerce in order to facilitate the purposes of this order.
4. This order shall become effective May 1, 1945.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
April 19, 1945