Whereas after investigation I find and proclaim that the plants and facilities owned or leased by
the Cities Service Refining Corporation located in and around Lake Charles, Louisiana, are equipped for the manufacture and production of articles and materials that are required for the war effort , or that are useful in connection therewith; that there are existing interruptions of the operation of the said plants and facilities as a result of a labor disturbance; that the war efforts will be unduly impeded or delayed by these interruptions; and that the exercise, as a hereinafter specified, of the powers vested in me is necessary to insure, in the interest of the war effort, the operation of these plants and facilities:
Now, Therefore, by virtue of the power and authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, including section 9 of the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940 (54 Stat. 892) as amended by the War Labor Disputes Act (57 Stat. 163), as President of the United States and Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. The Petroleum Administrator is hereby authorized and directed, through and with the aid of any persons or instrumentalities that he may designate, to take possession of the plants and facilities of the Cities Service Refining Corporation located in and around Lake Charles, Louisiana, and to the extent that he may deem necessary, of any real or personal property , and other assets wherever situated, used in connection with the operations thereof; to operate or to arrange for the operation of the plants and facilities in any manner, in accordance with applicable laws, that he may deem necessary for the successful prosecution of the war; to exercise any contractual or other rights of the Cities Service Refining Corporation, and to continue or discontinue the employment of, or to employ, any persons; and to do any other things that he may deem necessary for, or incidental to, the operation of the sale plants and facilities and the production, sale, and distribution of the products thereof; and to take any other steps that he deems necessary to carry out the provisions and purposes of this order. 
2. All Federal agencies, including, but not limited to, the National War Labor Board, the War Manpower Commission the National Selective Service System, and the Department of Justice, are directed to cooperate with the Petroleum Administrator to the fullest extent possible in carrying out the purposes of this order. 
3. The Petroleum Administrator shall provide such protection as may be required for such plants and facilities, and protection for all persons employed or seeking employment therein, both while at work, and for their families and homes; and upon the request of the Petroleum Administrator, or such person as may be designated to act for him, the Secretary of War shall take such action as may be necessary to provide such action as may to such persons and property.
4. The Petroleum Administrator shall permit the management of the plants and facilities taken under the provisions of this order to continue with its managerial functions to the maximum degree possible consistent with the aims of the order. 
5. Possession, control, and operation of any plant or facility, or part thereof, taken under this order shall be terminated b the Petroleum Administrator after possession of such plant, facility, or part thereof, is no longer required for the successful prosecution of the war, but in no event more than sixty days after the restoration of productive efficiency thereof prevailing prior to the taking of possession thereof. 
6. The Petroleum Administrator may delegate any and all power, authority, and discretion conferred upon him by this order to the Deputy Petroleum Administrator. The Petroleum Administrator and Deputy Petroleum Administrator may exercise the powers, authority, and discretion conferred upon them by this or under the provisions of the Petroleum Administration for War in such manner as the Petroleum Administrator of Deputy Petroleum Administrator may determine. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
April 17, 1945