By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes, and as President of the United States, and since the censoring of communications has been heretofore discontinued in accordance with my direction, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. The Office of Censorship, established by Executive Order No. 8985 of December 19, 1941, shall continue to function for the purposes of liquidation until the close of business on November 15, 1945, at which time the Office (including the office of the Director of Censorship) shall terminate. The Censorship Policy Board, created by the said Executive order, is terminated this date. For the purpose of completing the liquidation of the affairs of the Office of Censorship, all property and records of the Office on hand on November 15, 1945, together with its remaining personnel and any balances of appropriations then unexpended, shall be transferred to the Secretary of the Treasury, and so much thereof as the Director of the Bureau of the Budget shall determine to be necessary for such purpose shall be utilized by the Secretary in winding up the affairs of the Office.
2. When no longer needed for carrying out the provisions of this order, the property and records of the Office of Censorship shall be disposed of in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, and the personnel of the Office shall be transferred or separated from the Office as the interests of the Government may require.
3. Such further measures and dispositions as may be determined by the Director of the Bureau of the Budget to be necessary to effectuate the purposes and provisions of this order shall be carried out in such manner as the Director may direct and by such agencies as he may designate.
4. Nothing contained in this order shall be deemed to affect any proceedings instituted, or any forfeitures incurred, under section 303 of the First War Powers Act, 1941, or regulations occurring prior to August 16, 1945.
5. All prior Executive orders which are in conflict with this order are amended accordingly.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE, 
September 28, 1945