By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Civil Service Act (22 Stat. 403) and section 1753 of the Revised Statutes, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. Upon the request of any public international organization which is designated pursuant to the act of December 29, 1945 (Public Law 291, 79th Congress), and in which the United States Government participates, and with the consent of the head of the department or agency concerned, any civilian employee of a department or agency in the Executive branch of the Federal Government who is serving under an appointment not limited to one year or less may be transferred to such public international organization.
2. Any employee serving under a war-service indefinite appointment who is transferred pursuant to this order and, while serving in such public international organization, is either reached in regular order for probational appointment from a civil-service register appropriate for filling the position in which he was serving or could, with the approval of the head of such agency, have been given a classified civil-service status under section 6 of Executive Order No. 9691 of February 4, 1946, if he had remained in the position in which he last served in a Federal agency, shall be considered as having acquired a classified civil-service status as of the date he is reached for probational appointment or classification: Provided, That this section shall become inoperative three years from the date of this order.
3. (a) An employee (1) who is transferred to a public international organization under this order, (2) who has a classified civil-service status at the time of transfer or acquires such status under section 2 of this order, and (3) whose service in such public international organization is subsequently terminated without prejudice within three years from the date of such transfer shall be reemployed, within thirty days of his application for reemployment, in his former position or a position of like seniority, status, and pay in the department or agency from which he was transferred: Provided, That he is still qualified to perform the duties of such position and makes application for reemployment within ninety days after termination of his service with the international organization.
(b) Whenever the agency from which the employee is transferred under this order decides to fill the vacancy during his absence, the appointment shall be made on a temporary basis pending the return of the employee.
4. With the consent of the Federal agency in which he was formerly employed, the provisions of this Executive order may be made applicable to any person now service with a public international organization which is designated pursuant to the said act of December 29, 1945, and in which the United States Government participates.
5. The Civil Service Commission is authorized to prescribe such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this order. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 10, 1946