By virtue of the power and authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, particularly by Title III of the Second War Powers Act, 1942, as amended, as President of the United States and Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. The Director of the Office of Defense Transportation is hereby authorized to perform the functions and exercise the power, authority and discretion conferred upon the President of United States by section 2(a) of the Act of June 28, 1940 (54 Stat. 676) as amended by Title III of the Second War Powers Act, 1942, as amended (56 Stat. 177, 58 Stat. 827, 59 Stat. 658), for the purpose of allocating the use of transportation equipment and facilities by rail carriers, motor carriers, water carriers (except vessels under the jurisdiction of the Administrator of the War Shipping Administration), and air carriers, upon such conditions, and to such extent, as the said Director shall deem necessary or appropriate in the public interest and to promote the national defense. In order to perform such functions and exercise such power, authority and discretion, the Director is further authorized to exercise the authority conferred upon the President by said Second War Powers Act, 1942, as amended to obtain information, require reports and the keeping of records, make inspection of books, records and other writings, premises or property of any person, make investigations, administer oaths and affirmations, and require the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of books, records or other documentary or physical evidence pursuant to said statute.
2. The allocation of vessels by the Administrator of the War Shipping Administration under Executive Order No. 9054 of February 7, 1942, as amended, shall be subject to and shall be determined and made by the Administrator according to such cargo requirements, and according to such priorities and policies with respect thereto, as may be established by the Director.
3. The Director of the Office of Defense Transportation may exercise the power, authority and discretion conferred upon him by this order through such persons and agencies, and in such manner, as he may determine.
4. Nothing in this order shall be construed as limiting the authority vested in the Administrator of the Civilian Production Administration pursuant to Executive Orders 9125 and 9638.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 23, 1946