By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States by section 2of Article II of the Constitution of the Untied States, which provides that "The President * * * shall have power to grant reprieves and pardons for the offenses against the United States, except in cases of impeachment, " and in the interest of the internal management of the Government, it is ordered as follows:
1. There is hereby established a board of three members, which shall be known as the President's Amnesty Board. The members of the Board shall be appointed by the President, who shall also designate its chairman.
2. The Board, under such regulations as it may prescribe, shall examine and consider the cases of all persons convicted of violation of the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940, as amended (50 U. S. C. App. 301 ff.), or of any rule or regulation prescribed under or pursuant to the Act, or convicted of a conspiracy to violate that Act or any rule or regulation prescribed under or pursuant thereto. In any case in which it deems it desirable to do so, the Board shall make a report to the Attorney General which shall include its findings and its recommendations as to whether Executive clemency should be granted or denied, and, in any case in which it recommends that Executive clemency be granted, its recommendations with respect to the form that such clemency should take. The Attorney General shall report the findings and recommendations of the Board to the President, with such further recommendations as he may desire to make.
3. The members of the Board shall serve without compensation, but shall be entitled to necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties under this order.
4. All executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government are authorized and directed to cooperate with the Board in its work, and to furnish the Board all appropriate information and assistance. 
5. The Board shall cease to exist, unless otherwise provided by further Executive order, upon the submission of its final recommendations to the President by the Attorney General.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
December 23, 1946