By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes, as President of the United States and as Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy, and in order to insure that Federal research activities contribute most effectively and efficiently to strengthening the national defense, to developing the domestic economy, and to increasing the store of fundamental knowledge, and in the interest of the internal management of the Government, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. The Director of War Mobilization and Reconversion shall:
(a) Review the current and proposed scientific research and development activities conducted or financed by all departments and independent establishments of the Government to ascertain (1) the fields of such research and development and the objectives south; (2) the type and numbers of personnel required for the execution of such programs (3) the extent to and manner in which such research and development is conducted for the Federal Government by non-Federal profit and non-profit institutions; and (4) the cost of such activities.
(b) Review from readily available sources (1) the nature and scope of non-Federal scientific research and development activities; (2) the type and numbers of personnel required for such activities; (3) the facilities for training new scientist; and (4) the amounts of money expended for such research and development.
(c) Advise with the Director of the Budget in respect to such aspects of the foregoing matters as have a bearing upon the Federal Budget.
(d) On the basis of these studies and such other information as the Director may deem appropriate, prepare and submit a report to the President setting forth (1) his findings with respect to the Federal research programs and his recommendations for providing coordination and improved efficiency therein; and (2) his findings with respect to non-Federal research and development activities and training facilities, a statement of the interrelationship of Federal and non-Federal research and development, and his recommendations for planning, administering, and staffing Federal research programs to insure that the scientific personnel, training, and research facilities of the Nation are used most effectively in the national interest.
2. All departments and independent establishments of the Government are directed to furnish the Director such information and assistance as he may request in the performance of his duties under this order. In the performance of such duties the Director may also utilize such private agencies and personnel as he may deem appropriate.
3. No scientific information shall be withheld from the Director except on specific order of the President.
4. To assist the Director in the performance of his duties hereunder, there is hereby established an interdepartmental board to be known as the President's Scientific Research Board, which shall consist of the Director as chairman, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of the Navy, the Secretary of War, the Federal Loan Administrator, the Federal Works Administrator, the Director of the Office of Scientific Research and Development, the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, the Chairman of the Tennessee Valley Authority, and the Chairman of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, each of whom may designate a full-time member of his staff as alternate to act in his stead. The Director may from time to time designate as members of the Board heads of other departments or independent establishments engaged in Federal research or development work. The function of the Board shall be to assist the Director in making the studies described in paragraph 1 and to advise and consult with him in the preparation of reports required by this order
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
October 17, 1946