By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 7 of the act of August 2 1946, Public Law 600-79th Congress, I hereby prescribe the following regulations governing the expenses of travel of new appointees, expenses of transportation of their immediate families and expenses of transportation of their household goods and personal effects from places of actual residence at time of appointment to places of employment outside continental United States and for such expenses on return of employees from their posts of duty outside continental United States to places of their actual residence at time of assignment to duty outside the United States.
SECTION 1. Expenses authorized by section 7 of the said act of August 2, 1946, shall not be allowed new appointees unless and until the person selected for appointment shall agree in writing to remain in the Government service for the twelve months following his appointment, unless separated for reasons beyond his control. In case of a violation of such agreement, any moneys expended by the United States on account of such travel or transportation shall be considered as a debt due by the individual concerned to the United States.
SECTION 2. The travel expenses of new appointees from their places of actual residence at time of appointment to places of employment outside continental United States and of employees returning from their posts of duty outside continental United States to the places of their actual residence at the time of their assignment to duty outside the United States shall, until November 1, 1946, be in accordance with the Subsistence Expense Act of 1926, as amended (5 U.S.C. 821-823), the Standardized Government Gravel Regulations and the act of February 14, 1931, as amended (5 U.S.C. 73(a)).
SECTION 3. The expenses of transportation of the immediate families and expenses of transportation of the household goods and personal effects of new appointees from places of actual residence at time of appointment to places of employment outside continental United States and such expense on return of employees from their posts of duty outside continental United States to places of their actual residence at time of assignment to duty outside the United States shall, until November 1, 1946, be in accordance with Executive Order 9743 and Executive Order 8588, as amended.
SECTION 4. Beginning November 1, 1946, expenditures within the purview of section 2 and 3 of this order shall be in accordance with regulations to be issued under authority of section 1 of the aforesaid act of August 2, 1946.
SECTION 5. The provisions of these regulations shall not apply to expenditures from appropriations for the Foreign Service, Department of State, or to persons whose pay and allowances are established by the Pay Readjustment Act of 1942 (37 U.S.C. 101).
This order shall be effective as of August 2, 1946, and shall be published in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
September 10, 1946