By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 1753 of the Revised Statutes and by section 2 of the Civil Service Act (22 Stat. 403), it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. The Civil Service Commission is authorized and directed to certify for probational appointment any person (1) whose name appeared on any list of eligibles at any time between May 1, 1940, and October 23, 1943, with respect to positions in the field service of the Post Office Department, (2) who entered the armed forces of the United States between such dates and was separated therefrom under honorable conditions and is still qualified to perform the duties of the position, (3) who stood higher on such list of eligibles than another applicant who received a probational appointment therefrom, and (4) who requests restoration to the list of eligibles, or certification, within ninety days after the termination of service in the armed forces or of hospitalization continuing after discharge for a period of not more than one year, or within ninety days after the date of this order, whichever is later: Provided, That this order shall not apply in any case in which the list of eligibles had expired prior to the entry of the applicant into the armed forces and the Commission had not sustained objections to his certification from such list because of his draft status.
2. The Commission is also authorized and directed to certify for probational appointment, to fill existing vacancies in appropriate positions and to replace temporary and war-service appointees who do not have eligibility for permanent retention, the following classes of persons: (a) eligibles who qualify in examinations under section 10 of the Veterans' Preference Act of 1944 (58 Stat. 390) and who are entitled to 10-point preference and priority in certification for appointment under paragraph 1 of this order.
3. This order supersedes Executive Order No. 9538 of April 13, 1945, entitled "Authorizing Certification for Probational Appointment of Persons Who Lost Opportunity for Probational Appointment because of Entry into the Armed Forces."
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
June 4, 1946