WHEREAS the Congress, in the Urgent Deficiency Appropriate Action, 1947, approved March 22, 1947, has declared its intent that the Office of Temporary Controls be closed and liquidated by June 30, 1947; and
WHEREAS it is necessary to provide for the orderly liquidation of such Office and the disposition of its residual affairs:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statues, including the last paragraph of Title I of the First Supplemental Surplus Appropriation Rescission Act, 1946, approved February 18, 1946, Title III of the Second War Powers Act, 1942, as amended by the First Decontrol Act of 1947, section 201 (b) of the Emergency Price Control Act of 1942, as amend, and Title I of the First War Powers Act, 1941, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered, in the interest of the internal management of the Government as follows:
PART I
101. The Office of Temporary Controls, established by Executive Order No. 9809 of December 12, 1946, shall be terminated and disposition shall be made of its functions according to the provisions of this order.
PART II
201. The provisions of this Part shall become effective on May 4, 1947.
202. Functions of the Temporary Controls Administrator under the Emergency Price Control Act of 1942, as amended, Executive Order No. 9809, and as other statute, order, or delegation are transferred as follows:
(a) Functions with respect to rent control are transferred to the Housing Expediter and shall be performed by him or subject to his direction and control, by such officers or agencies of the Government as he may designate.
(b) Functions with respect to price control over rice are transferred to the Secretary of Agriculture and shall be performed by him or, subject to his direction and control, by such officers or agencies of the Department of Agriculture as he may designate.
(c) Functions with respect to (1) subsidies, including determinations of the correct amounts of claims and the recovery of over-payments (but excluding premium-payment functions transferred under paragraph 302 (b) hereof); (2) applications for price adjustments filed under Supplementary Order 9 and Procedural Regulation 6 (adjustment of Maximum Prices for Commodities and Services under Government Contracts or Subcontracts, 7 F. R. 5087, 5444) to the Office of Price Administration; and (3) the interpretation and application of price and subsidy regulations and orders which affect the amount of subsidy payable; are transferred to the Reconstruction Finance Corporation.
203 The following functions of the Temporary Controls Administrator are transferred to the Secretary of Commerce and shall be performed by him or, subjection to his direction and control, by such officers and agencies of the Department of Commerce as he may designate.
(a) Functions of the President under Title III of the Second War Powers Act, 1942, as amended, vested in the Temporary Controls Administrator immediately prior to the take of effect of this Part.
(b) Functions with respect to the determining, under section 6 (a) of the Strategic and Critical Materials Stockpiling Act, the amount of strategic and critical materials necessary to make up any deficiency of the supply thereof for the current requirements of industry.
(c) Functions under section 124 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended.
(d) Functions under section 12 of the Act of June 11, 1942 (Small Business Mobilization Act).
(e) Functions with respect to claims relating to the expansion of the capacity of defense plants when such expansion is alleged to have been undertaken at the request of the War Production Board or any of its predecessor agencies.
(f) Functions with respect to claims relating to property requisitioned by the Chairman of the War Production Board or any of his predecessors.
(g) Except as otherwise provided by statute or this or any other Executive order, all other functions of the Temporary Controls Administrator which were immediately prior to the taking of effect of Executive Order No. 9809 vested in the Civilian Production Administrator.
204. Executive Order No. 09705 of March 15, 1946 (as modified by Executive Orders No. 9762 and 9809) is revoked.
205 Any authority vested in the Temporary Controls Administrator in pursuance of Section 120 of the National Defense Act of 1916 (with respect to placing compulsory orders for products or materials) is withdrawn and terminated.
PART III
301. The provisions of this Part shall become effective June 1, 1947.
302. All functions vested in the Temporary Controls Administrator by Executive Order 9809 not otherwise disposed of by statute or by this or any other Executive order are transferred to the Secretary of Commerce and shall be performed by him or, subject to his direction and control, by such officers or agencies of the Department of Commerce as the Secretary may designate. Such functions shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(a) Functions of the President under the Stabilization Act of 1942, as amended, vested in the Temporary Controls Administrator immediately prior to the taking of effect of this Part.
(b) Functions with respect to premium payments under section 2 (e) (a) (2) of the Emergency Price Control Act of 1942, as amended, insofar as such payments relate to copper, lead and zinc ores.
(c) Functions with respect to the establishment of maximum prices for industrial alcohol sold to the Government or its agencies.
(d) The liquidation of the functions of the Office of Temporary Controls and of the agencies thereof, except liquidation relating to functions specifically transferred to other agencies (by the provisions of this order or otherwise).
303. The Office of Temporary Controls is terminated.
PART IV
401. The provisions of this Part shall become effective, respectively, on the dates on which functions are transferred or otherwise vested by the provisions of this order.
402. Functions under the Emergency Price Control Act of 1942, as amended, transferred under the provisions of this order shall be deemed to include authority on the part of each officer to whom such functions are transferred hereunder to institute, maintain, or defend in his own name civil proceedings in any court (including the Emergency Court of Appeals), relating to the matters transferred to him, including any such proceedings pending on the effective date of the transfer of any such function under this order. The provisions of this paragraph shall be subject to the provisions of the Executive order entitled "Conduct of Certain Litigation Arising under Wartime Legislation," issued on the date of this order and effective June 1, 1947.
403. (a) The records, property, and personnel relating primarily to the respective functions transferred under the provisions of this order shall be transferred, or otherwise made available, to the agencies to which such functions are transferred. Such measure and dispositions as may be determined by the Director of the Bureau of the Budget to be necessary to effectuate the purposes and provisions of this paragraph shall be carried out in such manner as the Director may determine and by such agencies as he may designate.
(b) In order that the confidential status of any records affected by this order shall be fully protected and maintained, the use of any confidential records transferred hereunder shall be so restricted by the respective agencies as to prevent the disclosure of information concerning individual persons or firms to person who are not engaged in functions or activities to which such records are directly related, except as provided for by law or as required in the final disposition thereof pursuant to law.
404. All provisions of prior Executive orders in conflict with this order are amended accordingly. All other prior and currently effective orders, rules, regulations, directives, and other similar instruments relating to any function transferred by the provisions of this order or issued by any agency terminated hereunder or by any predecessor or constituent agency thereof, shall remain in effect except as they are inconsistent herewith or are hereafter amended or revoked under proper authority.
405. As used in this order, "functions" includes powers, duties, authorities, discretions and responsibilities.
HARRY S TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
April 23, 1947