By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 section 21 of the Merchant Marine Act, 1920 (41 Stat. 997), provides:
That from and after February 1, 1922, the coastwise laws of the United States shall extend to the island Territories and possessions of the United States not now covered thereby, and the board is directed prior to the expiration of such year to have established adequate steamship service at reasonable rates to accommodate the commerce and the passenger travel of said islands and to maintain and operate such service until it can be taken over and operated and maintained upon satisfactory terms by private capital and enterprise: Provided, That if adequate shipping service is not established by February 1, 1922, the President shall extend the period herein allowed for the establishment of such service in the case of any island Territory or possession for such time as may be necessary for the establishment of adequate shipping facilities therefor . . . ; and
Whereas
 an adequate shipping service to accommodate the commerce and the passenger travel of Canton Island has not been established as provided in the aforesaid section; and
Whereas
 the extension of the coastwise laws of the United States to Canton Island, as provided in the aforesaid section, is dependent upon the establishment of such adequate shipping service; and 
Whereas
 by various proclamations the period for the establishment of an adequate shipping service for Canton Island was extended to January 1, 1943, and the extension of the coastwise laws of the United States to the Island was deferred to that date; and
Whereas
 no extensions have been made beyond that date for the reason that the Secretary of the Treasury waived compliance with the coastwise laws under the authority vested in him by section 501 of the Second War Powers Act, as extended; and
Whereas
 such authority of the Secretary of the Treasury has, pursuant to section 1 of the act of June 29, 1946, 60 Stat. 345, expired:
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 21 of the aforesaid Merchant Marine Act, 1920, do hereby declare and proclaim that the period for the establishment of an adequate shipping service for Canton Island is further extended to January 1, 1953, and that the extension of the coastwise laws of the United States to Canton Island is further deferred to January 1, 1953.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this 9th day of December in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-seven, and the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-second. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
ROBERT A. LOVETT,
Acting Secretary of State.