WHEREAS in accordance with a certain Settlement Agreement dates as of August 1, 1946, executed by and between the Secretary of the Interior and Grand River Dam Authority pursuant to the act of July 31, 1946, 60 Stat. 743, the Secretary of the Interior has returned possession and control of and conveyed to the Grand River Dam Authority the Grand River Dam Project (Licensed Project No. 1494), and has adjusted and settled certain accounts between the United States and the said Authority resulting from the taking and use by the United States of that Project; and
WHEREAS in the administration of the Grand River Dam Project (PWA Docket Oklahoma 1097-P-DS) the Secretary of the Interior has accepted as a part of such adjustment and settlement certain Refunding and Project Bonds known as "Grand River Dam Authority 2 ½% Revenue Bonds, Series A", in the aggregate principal amount of $14,000,000; and
WHEREAS the said Grand River Dam Project (PWA Docket Oklahoma 1097-P-DS) was transferred from the Federal Works Administrator to the Secretary of the Interior by Executive Order No. 9373 of August 30, 1943, under the authority of Title I of the First War Powers Act, 1941 and upon the expiration of that Title the functions, powers, and duties of the Secretary of the Interior with respect to that Project, including the said bonds, would by operation of law be vested in the Federal Works Administrator, who is custodian for the United States of all other revenue bonds of like character; and
WHEREAS it appears that it would be in the interest of administrative convenience and continuity to effect an immediate transfer to the Federal Works Administrator of the functions, powers, and duties previously transferred to the Secretary of the Interior by the said Executive Order 93731 with respect to the said Grand River Dam Project (PWA Dock Oklahoma 1097-P-DS) and the contracts, records, and accounts relating thereto, including the said bonds:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes of the United States, including Title I of the First War Powers Act, 1941, 55 Stat. 838, and in the interest of the internal management of the Government, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. All functions, powers, and duties previously transferred by Executive Order No. 9373 of August 30, 1943, from the Federal Works Administrator to the Secretary of the Interior with respect to the Grand River Dam Project (PWA Docket Oklahoma 1097-P-DS), including the functions, powers, and duties of the Secretary of the Interior with respect to the said Refunding and Project Bonds, are hereby transferred to and vested in the Federal Works Administrator, to be exercised by him or by such person or persons as he may designate.
2. The said Refunding and Project Bonds and all contracts, records, and accounts used primarily by the Secretary of the Interior in the administration of any function, power, or duty transferred by this order or primarily relating thereto are hereby transferred to the Federal Works Administrator for use in the administration of such functions, powers, and duties.
3. Nothing in this order shall be construed to derogate or affect (a) the authority of the Secretary of the Interior to continue the completion of the adjustment and settlement of accounts between the United States and the Grand River Dam Authority under the said act of July 31, 1946, and the Settlement Agreement executed in pursuance thereof, and under all other applicable statutes: or (b) the functions, powers, and duties of the Secretary of the Interior with respect to the project for the acquisition of an additional five feet of reservoir storage for the Grand River Dame Project (Federal List No. 584; N. I. R. A.) transferred by the said Executive Order No. 97-373 to the Secretary of the Interior from the Federal Works Administrator.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
April 14, 1947