By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 section 12(i) of the joint resolution of Congress approved November 4, 1939, provides in part as follows (54 Stat. 11; 22 U.S.C. 452(i)):
The President is hereby authorized to proclaim upon recommendation of the [National Munitions Control] Board from time to time a list of articles which shall be considered arms, ammunition, and implements of war for the purposes of this section * * *
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority conferred upon me by the said joint resolution of Congress, and pursuant to the recommendation of the National Munitions Control Board, and in the interest of the foreign-affairs functions of the United States, hereby declare and proclaim that the articles listed below shall, on and after February 20, 1947, be considered arms, ammunition, and implements of war for the purposes of section 12 of the said joint resolution of Congress:
CATEGORY I
(1) Rifles and carbines using ammunition in excess of caliber .22, and barrels for those weapons;
(2) Machine guns, automatic or auto-loading rifles, and machine pistols using ammunition in excess of caliber .22, and barrels for those weapons; machine-gun mounts;
(3) Guns, howitzers, and mortars of all calibers, their mountings and barrels;
(4) Ammunition in excess of caliber .22 for the arms enumerated under (1), (2), and (3) above, and cartridge cases or bullets for such ammunition; shells and projectiles, filled or unfilled, for the arms enumerated under (3) above;
(5) Grenades, bombs, torpedoes, mines and depth charges, filled or unfilled, and apparatus for their use or discharge;
(6) Tanks, military armored vehicles, and armored trains; armor plate and turrets for such vehicles.
CATEGORY II
Vessels of war of all kinds, including aircraft carriers and submarines, and armor plate and turrets for such vessels.
CATEGORY III
(1) Aircraft (piloted), both heavier and lighter than air, unassembled, assembled or dismantled: (1) classified from the standpoint of military security; or (b) especially designed for warlike purposes; or (c) having a weight empty greater than 35,000 pounds;
(2) Non-piloted aircraft and guided missiles, unassembled, assembled or dismantled;
(3) Any part, component, accessory, or device, of or pertaining to an aircraft either heavier or lighter than air, whether shipped alone or in an unassembled or assembled aircraft: (a) which is classified from the standpoint of military security; or (b) which (1) is not in general use in commercial aircraft and (2) is either especially designed for warlike purposes or adaptable substantially to increase the efficiency or performance of aircraft used for warlike purposes.
CATEGORY IV
(1) Revolvers and automatic pistols using ammunition in excess of caliber .22;
(2) Ammunition in excess of caliber .22 for the arms enumerated under (1) above, and cartridge cases or bullets for such ammunition.
CATEGORY V
(1) Livens projectors, flame throwers, and fire-barrage projectors;
(2) a. Mustard gas (dichloroethyl sulphide);
b. Lewisite (chlorvinyldichlorasine and dichlordivinylchlorarsine);
c. Methyldichlorarsine;
d. Diphenylchlorarsine;
e. Diphenylcyanarsine;
f. Diphenylaminechlorarsine;
g. Phenyldichlorarsin;
h. Ethyldichlorarsine;
i. Phenyldibromarsine
j. Ethyldibromarsine;
k. Phosgene;
l. Monochlormethylchlorformate;
m. Trichlormethylchlorformate (diphosgene);
n. Dichlordimethyl ether;
o. Dibromdimethyl ether;
p. Cyanogen chloride;
q. Ethylbromacetate;l
r. Ethyliodoacetate;
s. Brombenzylcyanide;
t. Bromacetone;
u. Brommethylethyl ketone.
CATEGORY VI
(1) Propellent powders;
(2) High explosives as follows:
a. Nitrocellulose having a nitrogen content of more than 12.20%;
b. Trinitrotoluene;
c. Trinitroxylene;
d. Tetryl (trinitrophenol methyl nitramine or "tetranitromethylaniline");
e. Picric acid;
f. Ammonium picrate;
g. Trinitroanisol;
h. Trinitronaphthalene;
i. Tetranitronaphthalene;
j. Hexanitrodiphenylamine;
k. Pentaerythritetetranitrate (penthrite or pentrite);
l. Trimethylenetrinitramine (hexogen or T4);
m. Potassium nitrate powders (black saltpeter powder);
n. Sodium nitrate powders (black soda powder);
o. Amatol (mixture of ammonium nitrate and trinitrotoluene);
p. Ammonal (mixture of ammonium nitrate, trinitrotoluene, and powdered aluminum, with or without other ingredients)
q. Schneiderite (mixture of ammonium nitrate and dinitronaphthalene, with or without other ingredients).
Effective February 20, 1947, this proclamation shall supersede Proclamation 2549, dated April 9, 1942.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this 14th day of February in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-first. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
G. C. MARSHALL,
Secretary of State.