By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 on March 10, 1933, the President of the United States, in pursuance of the program to permit resumption of banking operations following the Bank Holiday Proclamations No. 2039 of March 6 and No. 2040 of March 9, 1933, respectively, issued Executive Order No. 6073 which, among other things, authorized the Secretary of the Treasury to permit any member bank of the Federal Reserve System and any other banking institution organized under the laws of the United States to perform any or all of their usual banking functions except as otherwise prohibited; and
Whereas
 on December 30, 1933, the President of the United States issued Proclamation No. 2070 which excluded from the scope of the said proclamations of March 7 and March 9, 1933, and the Executive order of March 10, 1933, all banking institutions which were not members of the Federal Reserve System; and
Whereas
 by December 30, 1933, the Secretary of the Treasury had acted upon all requests for licensing of member banks of the Federal Reserve System; and
Whereas
 on December 31, 1945, the Secretary of the Treasury issued a General License to transact normal banking business to all banks thereafter authorized to begin business by the Comptroller of the Currency and to all State banks thereafter admitted to membership in the Federal Reserve System, and thereby dispensed with the requirement of an individual license for each new member bank of the Federal Reserve System; and
Whereas
 it is no longer necessary, or in the interest of government internal management, for the Secretary of the Treasury to license the transaction of normal banking business:
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 5(b) of the Trading with the Enemy Act of October 6, 1917, 40 Stat. 415, as amended, and section 4 of the act of March 9, 1933, 48 Stat. 2, and by virtue of all other authority vested in me, do hereby, in the interest of the internal management of the Government, proclaim, order, direct, and declare that the said proclamations of March 6 and March 9, 1933, and Executive order of March 10, 1933, as amended, are further amended to exclude from their scope banking institutions which are members of the Federal Reserve System: Provided, however, that no banking institution shall pay out any gold coin, gold bullion, or gold certificates, except as authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury, or allow the withdrawal of any currency for hoarding.
This proclamation shall become effective as of March 15, 1947.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this 7th day of April in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-first. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
DEAN ACHESON,
Acting Secretary of State.