By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 the Acting Secretary of the Interior has adopted and has submitted to me for approval the following amendment of the regulations approved by Proclamation No. 2739 of July 31, 1947, relating to migratory birds and game mammals included in the terms of the Convention between the United States and Great Britain for the protection of migratory birds concluded August 16, 1916, and the Convention between the United States and the United Mexican States for the protection of migratory birds and certain game mammals concluded February 7, 1936:
AMENDMENT OF MIGRATORY BIRD TREATY ACT REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
By virtue of and pursuant to the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of July 3, 1918 (40 Stat. 755), and Reorganization Plan II (53 Stat. 1431), and having determined, in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act of June 11, 1946 (Pub. Law No. 404 79th Congress), that the amendment adopted herein is corrective and that further notice and public procedure thereon are impracticable and unnecessary, I, Oscar L. Chapman, Acting Secretary of the Interior, having due regard to the zones of temperature and to the distribution, abundance, economic value, breeding habits, and times and lines of migratory flight of migratory birds included in the terms of the Convention between the United States and Great Britain for the protection of migratory birds, concluded August 16, 1916, and the Convention between the United States and the United Mexican States for the protection of migratory birds and game mammals, concluded February 7, 1936, have determined when, to what extent, and by what means it is compatible with the terms of the said Act and conventions to allow the hunting, taking, capture, killing, possession, sale, purchase, shipment, transportation, carriage, exportation, and importation of such birds and parts thereof and their nests and eggs, and in accordance with such determinations, do hereby amend the regulations approved by Proclamation No. 2739 of July 31, 1947, by deleting from Regulation 4 thereof that portion establishing an open season on mourning, or turtle, dove in the State of Florida and in lieu of such deleted portion, do hereby adopt the following:
"Florida in Broward, Dade, and Monroe Counties, October 1 to October 31; in remainder of State, December 3 to January 31."
In view of the fact that the portion of Regulation 4 deleted hereby was adopted by me under a mistake of fact, and in view of the further fact that the present amendment is corrective of regulations which are effective August 31, 1947, it has been determined that this amendment shall become effective August 31, 1947.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto subscribed my name and caused the seal of the Department of the Interior to be affixed, this 7th day of August 1947. 
OSCAR L. CHAPMAN,
Acting Secretary of the Interior
And Whereas
 upon consideration it appears that approval of the foregoing amendment will effectuate the purposes of the aforesaid Migratory Bird Treaty Act:
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 3 of the said Migratory Bird Treaty Act of July 3, 1918, do hereby approve and proclaim the foregoing amendment.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this 21st day of August in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-second. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
ROBERT A. LOVETT
Acting Secretary of State.