By virtue of the authority vested in me by the act of May 22, 1947, entitled "An Act to provide for assistance to Greece and Turkey," hereinafter referred to as the act, and as President of the United States, I hereby prescribe the following regulations for carrying out the provisions of the act:
1. Subject to such policies as the President may from time to time prescribe, the Secretary of State is hereby authorized, through such departments, agencies, and independent establishments of the government as he may designate, to exercise any power or authority conferred upon the President by the act, including expenditure of funds made available for the purposes of the act.
2. The Chief of Mission to Greece or Turkey appointed by the President pursuant to section 8 of the act shall, under the guidance and instructions of the Secretary of State, direct United States activities within Greece or Turkey, as the case may be, in furnishing assistance under the act. The Secretary of State may delegate to the Chief of Mission such powers or authority conferred by this order as he may deem necessary and proper to the effective carrying out of the provisions of the act and of the basic agreement with the Government of Greece or Turkey, as the case may be, setting forth the general terms and conditions under which assistance is to be furnished.
3. The Secretary of State shall provide, and at his request other departments, agencies, independent establishments, and officers of the Government shall cooperate in providing to the extent considered feasible in keeping with their other established governmental responsibilities and to the extent that funds may be available therefore, such personnel, together with their compensation, allowances, and expenses, and such administrative supplies, facilities, and services as may be necessary and proper to the effective carrying out of the provisions of the act.
4. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 hereof, the powers and authority conferred upon the Secretary of State by this order shall be exercised by the Secretary or, subject to his direction and control, by such officers and agencies of the Department of State as he may designate, in the interest of effective administration and proper coordination of functions under the act.
5. The Secretary of State shall make appropriate arrangements with the Secretaries of War and the Navy, and the heads of other Government departments, agencies, and independent establishments concerned, in order to enable them to fulfill their responsibilities under the act.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 22, 1947