By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 by Executive Order No. 9814 of December 23, 1946, there was established the President's Amnesty Board, the functions and duties of which were set out in paragraph 2 of the said Executive order as follows:
"The Board, under such regulations as it may prescribe, shall examine and consider the cases of all persons convicted of violation of the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 301 ff.), or of any rule or regulation prescribed under or pursuant to that Act, or convicted of a conspiracy to violate that Act or any rule or regulation prescribed under or pursuant thereto. In any case in which it deems it desirable to do so, the Board shall make a report to the Attorney General which shall include its findings and its recommendations as to whether Executive clemency should be granted or denied, and, in any case in which it recommends that Executive clemency be granted, its recommendations with respect to the form that such clemency should take. The Attorney General shall report the findings and recommendations of the Board to the President, with such further recommendations as he may desire to make."
and
Whereas
 the Board, after considering all cases coming within the scope of paragraph 2 of the said Executive order, has made a report to the Attorney General, which includes the findings of the Board and its recommendation that Executive clemency be granted in certain of such cases; and
Whereas
 the Attorney General has submitted such report to me with his approval of the recommendation made by the Board with respect to Executive clemency; and
Whereas
 upon consideration of the report and recommendation of the Board and the recommendation of the Attorney General, it appears that certain persons convicted of violating the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940 as amended ought to have restored to them the political, civil, and other rights of which they were deprived by reason of such conviction and which may not be restored to them unless they are pardoned:
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by Article II of the Constitution of the United States, do hereby grant a full pardon to those persons convicted of violating the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940 as amended whose names are included in the list of names attached hereto and hereby made a part of this proclamation.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this 23rd day of December in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-second. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
ROBERT A. LOVETT,
Acting Secretary of State.