Whereas an existing official of the Government, namely, the National Housing Administrator, was appointed initially to serve as Housing Expediter within the National Housing Agency; and
Whereas the powers, functions and duties of the Housing Expediter under the Veterans' Emergency Housing Act of 1946 (approved May 22, 1946) were merged with the powers, functions, and duties vested in the National Housing Administrator by Executive Order No. 9070 of February 24, 1942, the Lanham Act of October 14, 1490, and other statues, and have been exercised and performed through the Office of the Administrator, National Housing Agency; and
Whereas the Housing Expediter was recently appointed as an independent officer of the Government, and it is necessary that his powers, functions, and duties be segregated so that they may be properly exercised and performed by him:
Now, Therefore, by virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the said Veterans' Emergency Housing Act of 1946, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered, in the interest of the internal management of the Government, as follows:
1. All the powers, functions, and duties of the housing Expediter under the Veteran's Emergency Housing Act of 1946 which were merged with the powers, functions, and duties of the National Housing Administrator and exercised and performed through the Office of the Administrator, National Housing Agency, are hereby segregated and shall be exercised and performed by the Housing Expediter as an independent officer of the Government.
2. All personnel (as determined by joint certification by the Housing Expediter and the National Housing Administrator) appointed or transferred to positions which were required for the functions, and duties of the Housing Expediter, as segregated by paragraph 1 of this order, are hereby transferred to the Office of the Housing Expediter for the exercise and performance of the powers, functions, and duties by the Housing Expediter as an independent officer of the Government: Provided, That with respect to the heads of offices and branches and special assistants in positions allocated to grade P-8 or grad CAF-15 who are engaged in the administration of functions of both the Housing Expediter and the National Housing Administrator, the transfer of any such personnel to the Office of the Housing Expediter or their retention in the Office of the National Housing Administrator shall be determined by joint certification by such Expediter and such Administrator. The joint certifications required by this section shall be made within 30 days of the date of this order.
3. All assets contracts, and property including office equipment and records used or held in the administration, exercise, or performance of the powers, functions, and duties of the Housing Expediter, as segregated by paragraph1 of this order, are hereby transferred to the Office of the Housing Expediter.
4. So much of the unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, or other funds available to the Office of the Administrator, National Housing Agency, for use in connection with the administration, exercise, or performance of the powers, functions, and duties of the Housing Expediter (as segregated by section 1 of this order) as the Director of the Bureau of the Budget shall determine shall be transferred to the Office of the Housing Expediter for use in connection with the said powers, functions, and duties. In determining the amount of funds to be transferred, the Director of the Bureau of the Budget may include an amount to provide for the liquidation of obligations incurred against such appropriations, authorizations, allocations, or other funds prior to transfer.
5. All unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, or other funds transferred under this order shall be used only for the respective purposes and in the administration of the respective functions for which such funds were made available.
6. Such further measures and dispositions as may be determined by the Director of the Bureau of the Budget to be necessary to effectuate the purposes and provisions of this order shall be carried out in such manner as the Director of the Bureau of the Budget may direct and by such agencies as he may designate.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
January 11, 1947