By virtue of authority vested in me by the Federal Register Act (49 Stat. 500, as amended; 44 U.S.C. 301 et seq.), and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. The following regulations shall govern the preparation, presentation, filing, and publication of Executive orders and proclamations, and shall constitute §§ 1.91 through 1.97 of Chapter I of Title 1 of the Code of Federal Regulations:
§ 1.91 Form. Proposed Executive orders and proclamations shall be prepared in accordance with the following requirements:
(a) The order or proclamation shall be given a suitable title.
(b) The authority under which the order or proclamation is issued shall be cited in the body thereof.
(c) Punctuation, capitalization, orthography, and other matters of style shall, in general, conform to the most recent edition of the Style Manual of the United States Government Printing Office.
(d) The spelling of geographic names shall conform to the most recent official decisions of the Board on Geographic Names established pursuant to the act of July 25, 1947, 61 Stat. 456 (43 U.S.C. 364 et seq.).
(e) Descriptions of tracts of land shall conform, so far as practicable, to the most recent edition of the "Specifications for Descriptions of Tracts of Land for Use in Executive Orders and Proclamations," published by, or other the direction of, the Director of the Bureau of the Budget.
(f) Proposed Executive orders and proclamations shall be typewritten on paper approximately 8 x 12 ½ inches, shall have a left-hand margin of approximately 1 ½ inches and a right-hand margin of approximately 1 inch, and shall be double-spaced, except that quotations, tabulations, and descriptions of land may be single-spaced.
§ 1.92 Routing and approval of drafts. A proposed Executive order or proclamation shall first be submitted, with seven copies thereof, to the Director of the Bureau of the Budget. If the Director of the Bureau of the Budget approves it, he shall transmit it to the Attorney General for his consideration as to both form and legality. If the Attorney General approves it, he shall transmit it to the Director of the Division of the Federal Register, the National Archives. After determining that it conforms to the requirements of § 1.91 and is free from typographical or clerical error, the Director of the Division of the Federal Register shall transmit it and three copies thereof to the President. If it is disapproved by the Director of the Bureau of the Budget or by the Attorney General, it shall not thereafter be presented to the President unless it is accompanied by a statement of the reasons for such disapproval.
§ 1.93 Routing of originals and copies; seal. If the order or proclamation is signed by the President, the original and two copies thereof shall be forwarded to the Director of the Division of the Federal Register for appropriate action in conformity with the provisions of the Federal Register Act: Provided, That the seal of the United States shall be affixed, pursuant to direction of the President, to the originals of all proclamations prior to such forwarding.
§ 1.94 Numbering and certification. The Division of the Federal Register shall number chronologically all Executive orders and proclamations and shall cause to be placed upon the copies thereof the following notation, to be signed by the Director or by some person authorized by him: "Certified to be a true copy of the original".
§ 1.95 Disposition of originals. The Division of the Federal Register from time to time shall file in the National Archives the originals of all Executive orders and proclamations.
§ 1.96 Publication and distribution. The Division of the Federal Register shall publish currently in the FEDERAL REGISTER all Executive orders and proclamations and shall supervise the promulgation and distribution thereof.
§ 1.97 Proclamations of treaties excluded. Consonant with the provisions of section 12 of the Federal Register Act (49 Stat. 503; 44 U.S.C. 312), nothing in this chapter shall be construed to apply to treaties, conventions, protocols, or other international agreements, or proclamations thereof by the President. 
2. This order shall become effective upon publication in the FEDERAL REGISTER, and shall thereupon supersede Executive Order No. 7298 of February 28, 1936, entitled "Regulations Governing the Preparation, Presentation, Filing, and Distribution of Executive Orders and Proclamations".
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
October 9, 1948