By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
As the traditional day of thanksgiving approaches, our thoughts incline, as in previous years, to the richness of our blessings. The spiritual endowments of our country are undiminished; we may, as always, walk as free men unafraid. Our harvests have been bountiful, our production of goods abundant. Our resources have permitted us to aid the needy and helpless of other lands.
We are privileged to participate in international efforts to advance human welfare. We are profoundly grateful for the existence of an international forum where differences among nations may be submitted to world opinion with a view to harmonious adjustment.
We pray this year not only in the spirit of thanksgiving but also as suppliants for wisdom in our approach to the problems confronting this nation. Believing in the dignity of man and his right to live in freedom and peace, we ask divine guidance in helping to safeguard these gifts for ourselves and other peoples of the earth.
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, in consonance with the joint resolution of Congress approved December 26, 1941, designating the fourth Thursday of November in each year as Thanksgiving Day, do hereby proclaim Thursday, November 25, 1948, as a day of national thanksgiving; and I call upon our citizens to observe that day by giving thanks to Almighty God for the bounties which have been bestowed upon our Nation and by resolving to render generous assistance to the hungry and homeless in other lands, thus renewing our devotion to the cause of good-will among men.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this 12th day of November in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-third. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
ROBERT A. LOVETT,
Acting Secretary of State.