WHEREAS our national economic welfare requires the widest possible distribution of the national debt through the sale of United States Savings Bonds to the people; and
WHEREAS every purchaser of United States Savings Bonds invests not only in the nation's economic welfare, but also in his own personal security and independence, and it is, therefore, to the manifest advantage of Government, Management, and Labor and of every citizen that the sale of such bonds to the people be vigorously promoted; and
WHEREAS the Federal Government is earnestly requesting more than 30,000 business and industrial enterprises to provide for an vigorously promote, by personal solicitation, the purchase of United States Savings Bonds, Series E, through regular, voluntary pay allotments on the Payroll Savings Plan; and 
WHEREAS it is desirable and proper that all civilian and uniformed officers and employees in the Federal Government should set an example of leadership in this activity:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. There is hereby established the Interdepartmental Committee for the Peacetime Voluntary Payroll Savings Plan for the Purchase of United States Savings Bonds (hereinafter referred to as the Committee). The Committee shall consist of Edward F. Bartelt, Fiscal assistant Secretary of the Treasury, who shall serve as Chairman, and the head of each of the several departments, establishments, and agencies in the executive branch of the Government. Each member of the Committee, other than the Chairman, may designate an alternate from among the officials of his department, establishment, or agency, and such alternate may act for such member in all matters relating to the Committee.
2. The Committee shall perform the following functions and duties:
(a) Formulate and present to the several departments, establishments, and agencies in the executive branch of the Government a plan of organization and sales promotion whereby the voluntary Payroll Savings Plan will be made available to all officers and employees for the purchase of Series E. Savings Bonds, and whereby all such officers and employees will be urged to participate.
(b) Assist the several departments, establishments, and agencies in the installation of the said Payroll Savings Plan and in the solution of any special problems that may develop in connection therewith.
(c) Act as a clearing house for the several departments, establishments, and agencies in the dissemination of such statistics and information relative to the execution and sales promotion of the Plan as may be deemed advantageous.
(d) Recommend to the several departments, establishments, and agencies, any methods for improvements in the program adopted pursuant to the said Plan.
3. Each of the departments, establishments, and agencies in the executive branch of the Government shall institute and set in operation, as soon as practicable, the plan of organization and sales promotion recommended by the Committee, with such modifications as particular circumstances may render advisable. Each Committee member shall act as liaison officer between the Committee and his department, establishment, or agency with regard to the said Plan.
4. This order shall supersede Executive Order No. 9135 of April 16, 1942, establishing the Interdepartmental Committee for the Voluntary Pay Roll Savings Plan for the Purchase of War Savings Bonds.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
April 23, 1948