By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 by the act of Congress approved July 17, 1946, 60 Stat. 568, the President is authorized, under the conditions prescribed in that act, to grant an extension of time for the fulfillment of the conditions and formalities for the renewal of trade-mark registrations prescribed by section 12 of the act authorizing the registration of trade-marks used in commerce with foreign nations or among the several States or with Indian tribes, and to protect the same, approved February 20, 1905, as amended (15 U.S.C. 92), by nationals of countries which accord substantially equal treatment in this respect to citizens of the United States of America:
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by the aforesaid act of July 17, 1946, do find and proclaim that with respect to trade-marks of nationals of Belgium registered in the United States Patent Office which have been subject to renewal on or after September 3, 1939, there has existed during several years since that date, because of conditions growing out of World War II, such disruption or suspension of facilities essential to compliance with the conditions and formalities prescribed with respect to renewal of such registrations by section 12 of the aforesaid act of February 20, 1905, as amended, as to bring such registrations within the terms of the aforesaid act of July 17, 1946; that Belgium accords substantially equal treatment in this respect to trademark proprietors who are citizens of the United States; and that accordingly the time within which compliance with conditions and formalities prescribed with respect to renewal of registrations under section 12 of the aforesaid act of February 20, 1905, as amended, may take place is hereby extended with respect to such registrations which expired after September 3, 1939, and before June 30, 1947, until and including December 31, 1948.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this 2nd day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-eight and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-second. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
G. C. MARSHALL,
Secretary of State.