By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
The Coat of Arms of the Vice President of the United States shall be of the following design:
SHIELD: Paleways of thirteen pieces argent and gules, a chief azure; upon the breast of an American eagle with wings displayed and inverted holding in his dexter talon an olive branch all proper and in his sinister an arrow or, in his beak a yellow scroll inscribed "E PLURIBUS UNUM" sable.
The whole surrounded by thirteen blue stars in the form of an annulet with one point of each star outward on the imaginary radiating center lines.
The Seal of the Vice President of the United States shall consist the Coat of Arms encircled by the words "Vice President of the United States."
The Color and Flag of the Vice President of the United States shall consist of a white rectangular background of sizes and proportions to conform to military and naval custom, on which shall appear the Coat of Arms of the Vice President in proper colors. The proportion of the elements of the Coat of Arms shall be in direct relation to the hoist, and the fly shall vary according to the customs of the military and naval services.
The Coat of Arms, Seal, and Color and Flag shall be as described herein and as set forth in the illustrations and specifications which accompany this order and which are hereby made a part thereof.
These designs shall be used to represent the Vice President of the United States exclusively.
Executive Order No. 7285 of February 7, 1936, prescribing the official flag of the Vice President of the United States, is hereby revoked.
THE VICE PRESIDENT'S FLAG
SPECIFICATIONS
Flag base-white.
Stars-blue.
Shield:
Chief-blue.
Stripes-white and red.
Eagle:
Wings, body, upper legs-shades of brown.
Head, neck, tall-white, shaded gray.
Beak, feet, lower legs-yellow.
Talons-dark gray, white high lights.
Arrow-yellow.
Olive branch:
Leaves, stem-shades of green
Olives-light green.
Scroll-yellow with brown shadows.
Letters-black.
Device to appear on both sides of flag but will appear reversed on reverse side of flag, except that the motto shall read from left to right on both sides.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
November 10, 1948