By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 TITLE I OF THE Selective Service Act of 1948, approved June 24, 1948, contains, in part, the following provisions:
SEC. 3. Except as otherwise provided in this title, it shall be the duty of every male citizen of the United States, and every other male person residing in the United States, who, on the day or days fixed for the first or any subsequent registration, is between the ages of eighteen and twenty-six, to present himself for an submit to registration at such time or times and place or places, and in such manner, as shall be determined by proclamation of the President and by rules and regulations prescribed hereunder.
* * * * * *
SEC. 6. (a) Commissioned officers, warrant officers, pay clerks, enlisted men, and aviation cadets of the Regular Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marine Corps, the Coast Guard, the Coast and Geodetic Survey, and the Public health Service; cadets, United States Military Academy; midshipmen, United States Navy; cadets, United States Coast components of the armed forces, the Coast Guard, and the Public Health Service, while on active duty; and foreign diplomatic representatives, technical attaches of foreign embassies and legations, consuls general, consuls, vice consuls, and other consular agents of foreign countries who are not citizens of the United states, and members of their families, and persons in other categories to be specified by the president, residing in the United States, and who have not declared their intention to become citizens of the United States, shall not be required to be registered under section 3 and shall be relieved from liability for training and service under section 4(b).
* * * * * *
(k) No exception from registration, or exemption or deferment from training and service, under this title, shall continue after the cause therefor ceases to exist.
* * * * * *
SEC. 10 * * *
(b) The President is authorized
(1) to prescribe the necessary rules and regulations to carry out the provisions of this title;
* * * * * *
(5) to utilize the services of any or all departments and any and all officers or agents of the United States, and to accept the services of all officers and agents of the several States, Territories, and possessions, and subdivisions thereof, and the District of Columbia, and of private welfare organizations, in the execution of this title;
* * * * * *
SEC. 15. (a) Every person shall be deemed to have notice of the requirements of this title upon publications by the President of a proclamation or other public notice fixing a time for any registration under section 3.
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the Untied States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by title I of the Selective Service Act of 1948, do proclaim the following:
1. The registration of male citizens of the United States and other male persons residing in the United States who shall have attained the eighteenth anniversary of the day of their birth and who shall have not attained the twenty-sixth anniversary of the day of their birth shall take place in the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Territories of Alaska and Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands between the hours of 8:00 A.M. and 5:00 P.M. on the day or days hereinafter designated for their registration, as follows:
(a) Persons born in the year 1922 after August 30, 1922, shall be registered on Monday, the 30th day of August, 1948.
(b) Persons born in the year 1923 shall be registered on Tuesday, the 31st day of August, 1948, or on Wednesday, the 1st day of September, 1948.
(c) Persons born in the year 1924 shall be registered on Thursday, the 2nd day of September, 1948, or on Friday, the 3rd day of September, 1948.
(d) Persons born in the year 1925 shall be registered on Saturday, the 4th day of September, 1948, or on Tuesday, the 7th day of September, 1948.
(e) Persons born in the year 1926 shall be registered on Wednesday, the 8th day of September, 1948, or on Thursday, the 9th day of September, 1948.
(f) Persons born in the year 1927 shall be registered on Friday, the 10th day of September, 1948, or on Saturday, the 11th day of September, 1948.
(g) Persons born in the year 1928 shall be registered on Monday, the 13th day of September, 1948, or on Tuesday, the 14th day of September, 1948.
(h) Persons born in the year 1929 shall be registered on Wednesday, the 15th day of September, 1948, or on Thursday, the 16th day of September, 1948.
(i) Persons born in the year 1930 before September 19, 1930, shall be registered on Friday, the 17th day of September, 1948, or on Saturday, the 18th day of September, 1948.
(j) Persons who were born on or after September 19, 1930, shall be registered on the day they attain the eighteenth anniversary of the day of their birth, or within five days thereafter.
2. (a) Every male citizen of the United States and every other male person residing in the United States other than persons excepted by section 6(a) of title I of the Selective Service Act of 1948, who is within any of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Territory of Alaska, the Territory of Hawaii, Puerto Rico, or the Virgin Islands and who shall have attained the eighteenth anniversary of the day of his birth and who shall have not attained the twenty-sixth anniversary of the day of his birth on the day or any of the days fixed herein for his registration is required to and shall on that day or any of those days present himself for and submit to registration before a duly designated registration official or selective service local board having jurisdiction in the area in which he has his permanent home or in which he may happen to be on that day or any of those days.
(b) A person subject to registration may register after the day or days fixed for registration in case he is prevented from registering on that day or any of those days by circumstances beyond his control or because he is not present in any of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Territory of Alaska, the Territory of Hawaii, Puerto Rico, or the Virgin Islands, on that day or any of those days. If he is not in any of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Territory of Alaska, the Territory of Hawaii, Puerto Rico, or the Virgin Islands, on the day or any of the days fixed for registration but subsequently enters any of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Territory of Alaska, the Territory of Hawaii, Puerto Rico, or the Virgin Islands, he shall within five days after such entrance present himself for and submit to registration before a duly designated registration before a duly designated registration official or selective service local board. If he is in any of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Territory of Alaska, the Territory of Hawaii, Puerto Rico, or the Virgin Islands, on the day or any of the days fixed for registration but because of circumstances beyond his control is unable to present himself for and submit to registration on that day or any of those days he shall do so as soon as possible after the cause for such inability ceases to exist.
3. Every person subject to registration is required to familiarize himself with the rules and regulations governing registration and to comply therewith.
4. I call upon the Governors of each of the several States, the Territories of Alaska and Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands and the Board of Commissioners of the District of Columbia, and all officers and agents of the United States and all officers and agents of the several States, the Territories of Alaska and Hawaii, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and the District of Columbia, and political subdivisions thereof, and all local boards which, and agents thereof who, may be appointed under the provisions of title I of the Selective Service Act of 19478, or the regulations which may be prescribed thereunder, to do and perform all acts and services necessary to accomplish effective and complete registration.
5. In order that there may be full cooperation in carrying into effect the purposes of title I of the Selective Service Act of 1948, I urge all employers and Government agencies of all kinds?Federal, State, territorial and local?to give those under their charge sufficient time in which to fulfill the obligations of registration incumbent upon them under the said Act and this proclamation.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this 20th day of July in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-third. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
G. C. MARSHALL
Secretary of State.