By virtue of the authority vested in me by the joint resolution approved December 30, 1947 (Public Law 395, 80th Congress), and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. The authority to consult with representatives of industry, business, and agriculture with a view to encouraging the making of voluntary agreements or plans provided for in section 2 of the said joint resolution of December 30, 1947 (hereinafter referred to as the joint resolution), and the authority to approve any such agreements or plans and to make written requests for compliance with any such agreements or plans is delegated severally to the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Director of the Office of Defense Transportation as provided in paragraphs 2, 3, 4, and 5 hereof: Provided, however, that no such agreement or plan shall be approved by any of such officers unless it is first submitted to and approved by the Attorney General. The consultation above referred to may be through advisory committees approved by the appropriate governmental officer or agency as representative of the various segments of the industry involved. Prior to submitting any such proposed agreement or plan to the Attorney General the appropriate governmental officer or agency shall give industry, labor, and the public generally an opportunity to present their views with respect to the agreement or plan. The submission of the proposed agreement or plan to the Attorney general shall be accompanied by the favorable recommendation of the head of the appropriate department or agency and by a statement of (a) the circumstances which require the proposed agreement or plan, (b) the means by which the agreement or plan will be carried out, (c) the effect of the agreement or plan on persons and industries affected, including where appropriate the proposed degree of curtailment in amount and prospective use of any material, commodity, or product by an processor or user thereof, and the formulae for such curtailment, (d) the criteria used in the establishment of such formulae, and (e) the factual evidence on which the recommendation for approval is made, showing which information, if any, is subject to restrictions for reasons of military security.
2 (a). The authority delegated to the Secretary of the Interior by paragraph 1 hereof shall be exercised by him with respect to priority, allocation, and inventory control of fuels.
(b). For the purposes of this order the term "fuels" means coal, coke, petroleum and petroleum products, and natural and manufactured gas.
3 (a). The authority delegated to the Secretary of Agriculture by paragraph 1 hereof shall be exercised by him with respect to priority, allocation, and inventory control of agricultural commodities and with respect to speculative trading on commodity exchanges. (b). For the purposes of this order, the term "agricultural commodities" means all commodities and products, simple, mixed, or compound, or complements to such commodities or products that are or may be eaten or drunk by human beings or animals, irrespective of other uses to which such commodities or products may be put, and at all stages of processing from the raw commodity to the product thereof in a vendible form for immediate human or animal consumption, but exclusive of such commodities and products as the Secretary of Agriculture shall determine. For the purposes of this order the term "agricultural commodities" shall also include all starches, sugars, fats and oils of animal, vegetable, or marine origin (including oil seeds and other oil bearing materials, fatty acids, soap and soap powder), cotton, tobacco, wool, hemp, flax fiber, and alcohol, and also such other commodities and products as the President may designate.
4 (a). The authority delegated to the Director of the Office of Defense Transportation by paragraph 1 hereof shall be exercised by him with respect to allocation of transportation facilities and equipment. 
(b). The powers, authority, and discretion conferred on the President by section 4(a) of the joint resolution with respect to the use of transportation equipment and facilities by rail carriers are hereby included within the powers, authority, and discretion delegated to the Director of the Office of Defense Transportation under Executive Order No. 8989 of December 18, 1941 (6 F.R. 6725), as amended by Executive Order No. 9389 of October 18, 1943 (8 F.R. 14183), Executive Order No. 9156 of May 2, 1942 (7 F.R. 3349), Executive Order No. 9214 of August 5, 1942 (7 F.R. 6097), and Executive Order No. 9729 of May 23, 1946 (11 F.R. 5641). The said Executive orders are amended accordingly. 
5. The authority delegated to the Secretary of Commerce by paragraph 1 hereof shall be exercised by him with respect to priority, allocation, and inventory control of scarce commodities which basically affect the cost of living or industrial production, other than fuels as provided in paragraph 2, agricultural commodities as provided in paragraph 3, and transportation facilities and equipment as provided in paragraph 4.
6. The Secretary of Agriculture is hereby authorized to carry out a program for the conservation of food and feed and for that purpose to exercise the authority conferred upon the President by section 8 of the joint resolution.
7. The Secretary of Commerce is hereby authorized to continue exercising the powers, authority, and discretion conferred upon the President by section 6 of the act of July 2, 1940, 54 Stat. 714, as amended. Such powers, authority, and discretion, and the powers, authority, and discretion vested in the President by section 3 of the joint resolution are hereby included within the delegation made to the Secretary of Commerce by Executive Order No 9630 of September 27, 1945 (10 F.R. 12245), and the said Executive order is modified accordingly.
8. Each governmental officer or agency exercising authority delegated under this order shall, in exercising such authority, consult with other agencies or committees having special information or sources of such information about the supply of or demand for the materials, commodities or facilities involved and with other agencies or committees having responsibilities related to such authority. Each agency shall establish such committees and other working groups as may be appropriate to consult with and obtain the advice of other agencies.
9. Nothing in this order shall be deemed to affect the powers, authority, or discretion delegated to the Secretary of Agriculture by Executive Order No. 9915 of December 30, 1947.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
January 3, 1948