By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 cancer is the second highest cause of death in this country, taking an annual toll of more than 180,000 lives; and
Whereas
 notable advances have been made in the diagnosis and treatment of this disease in recent years; and
Whereas
 a striking reduction in the number of cancer deaths can be achieved if people throughout the country take full advantage of our present knowledge concerning this affliction; and
Whereas
 a complete cancer-control program requires continued support of cancer research, improvement and expansion of facilities for the diagnosis and treatment of the disease, and educational measures to advance the knowledge of the professional groups concerned as well as to inform the public of the nature of the malady and of ways of guarding against it; and
Whereas
 such a program calls for the combined efforts of the public and of all agencies, both public and private, concerned with the problem; and
Whereas
 by a joint resolution approved March 28, 1938 (52 Stat. 148), the Congress authorized and requested the President to issue annually a proclamation setting apart the month of April as Cancer Control Month;
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby set apart the month of April 1948 as Cancer Control Month; and I invite the Governors of the several States and the Territories and possessions of the United States to issue similar proclamations.
I also invite the medical profession, the press, the radio, the motion-picture industry, and all organizations and individuals interested in a national program for the control of cancer by education and other cooperative means to unite during the month of April in a concerted effort to impress upon the people of the Nation the vital importance to their health and to the welfare of the Nation of a program for the control of cancer and the necessity for their cooperation in such a program.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this 25th day of March in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-second.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
G. C. MARSHALL,
Secretary of State.