By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 1 of the act of March 14, 1940, 54 Stat. 49 (38 U.S.C. 76), as amended by the act of June 16, 1948 (Public Law 660, 80th Congress), I hereby prescribe the following regulations governing the allowance of travel expenses of claimants and beneficiaries of the Veterans' Administration and their attendants:
1. The Administrator of Veterans' Affairs may authorize the payment of actual necessary expenses of travel, including lodging and subsistence, of any claimant or beneficiary of the Veterans' Administration traveling under prior authorization to or from a Veterans' Administration facility, or other place, in connection with vocational rehabilitation or for the purpose of examination, treatment, or care, to the claimant or beneficiary, or, in his discretion, to the person who or the organization which has actually paid the expenses of such travel, including lodging and subsistence.
2. the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs may authorize in lieu of actual expenses of travel, including lodging and subsistence, payment of an allowance of 3 cents a mile to any claimant or beneficiary of the Veterans' Administration traveling under prior authorization to our from a Veterans' Administration facility, or other place, in connection with vocational rehabilitation or for the purpose of examination, treatment, or care, or, in his discretion, to the person who or the organization which has actually paid the expenses of such travel, including lodging and subsistence: Provided that payment of mileage in connection with vocational rehabilitation or upon termination of examination, treatment, or care may be made prior to completion of such travel.
3. When any claimant or beneficiary requires an attendant other than an employee of the Veterans' Administration for the performance of such travel, such attendant may be allowed the expenses of travel upon a similar basis.
4. The Administrator of Veterans' Affairs may prescribe such rules and regulations not inconsistent herewith as may be necessary to effectuate the provisions of this order.
5. This order supersedes Executive Order No. 9446 of June 8, 1944, entitled "Regulations Governing the Allowance of Travel Expenses of Claimants and Beneficiaries of the Veterans' Administration and of Their Attendants."
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
July 7, 1948