By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 Proclamation No. 2523 of November 14, 1941, issued under and by virtue of the authority vested in the President by the act of May 22, 1918, 40 Stat. 559, as amended by the act of June 21, 1941, 55 Stat. 252, prescribes regulations which impose certain restrictions and prohibitions, in addition to those otherwise provided by law, upon the departure of persons from and their entry into the United States; and
Whereas
 I find that the interests of the United States, within the meaning of the said act of June 21, 1941, and by reason of the continued existence of the conditions set forth in section 1 thereof, require that the said proclamation be amended as hereinafter set forth:
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority vested in the President by the act of Congress above mentioned, do proclaim as follows:
1. The said Proclamation No. 2523 is hereby amended so that paragraph numbered (3) thereof, together with the succeeding unnumbered paragraph, shall read as follows:
"(3)(a) After the effective date of the rules and regulations hereinafter authorized, no alien shall enter or attempt to enter the United States unless he is in possession of a valid unexpired permit to enter issued by the Secretary of State, or by an appropriate officer designated by the Secretary of State, or is exempted from obtaining a permit to enter, in accordance with rules and regulations which the Secretary of State, with the concurrence of the Attorney General, is hereby authorized to prescribe.
"(b) No permit to enter shall be issued to an alien if it appears to the satisfaction of the issuing officer, or the Secretary of State, that the alien's entry would be prejudicial to the interests of the United States within the meaning of the rules and regulations hereinbefore authorized to be prescribed by the Secretary of State with the concurrence of the Attorney General.
"(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of the foregoing paragraphs (a) and (b), no alien applying for admission, even with a valid permit to enter, shall enter or be permitted to enter the United States if it appears to the satisfaction of the Attorney General that such entry would be prejudicial to the interests of the United States."
2. All existing regulations promulgated under or pursuant to the said Proclamation No. 2523 are hereby ratified and confirmed and shall be construed to have the same effect as if included in such proclamation: Provided, however, that nothing contained herein shall be deemed to limit lawful authority to amend or modify such regulations.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this 17th day of August in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-fourth. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
DEAN ACHESON,
Secretary of State.