WHEREAS the President and the Congress, in support of the recommendations of the Commission on Organization of the Executive Branch of the Government, are currently taking action further to improve Government organization and to give department and agency heads responsibility and authority which will enable them to manage their agencies more effectively; and
WHEREAS complementary actions are necessary to realize the economies and increased operating effectiveness made possible by improved organization of the Executive Branch; and
WHEREAS it is desirable to establish further machinery to give increased and regular attention to the economy of operations and effectiveness of programs:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. Department and agency heads shall (a) review the programs under their respective jurisdictions to assure themselves and the President that such programs are being carried out with maximum effectiveness and economy, (b) provide for periodic and systematic appraisals of operations to identify opportunities to improve effectiveness and performance, (c) schedule action to work out and install improvements, giving priority to the activities promising greatest benefits in economy or better service for the same or less money, and (d) report periodically to the Bureau of the Budget on the progress made in establishing management improvement programs and the results achieved therefrom.
2. The Bureau of the Budget shall (a) review department and agency plans for management improvement in conjunction with requests for funds, and at other appropriate times, (b) advise and assist the agencies in working out programs to improve their operations, (c) make appropriate arrangements for handling program and operating problems of an interagency nature, (d) provide for an interchange of information on effective management techniques, and (e) report periodically to the President on the progress and results of agency management improvement efforts.
3. There is hereby established an Advisory Committee on Management Improvement. The Committee shall assist the President in creating a government-wide program for management improvement, developing a framework for the conduct of management activities, reviewing the progress of agency management improvement efforts, and promoting a better understanding of measures taken to improve the management of the Executive Branch of the Government. The Committee shall be appointed by the President and shall consist of twelve members, five of whom shall be officers or employees of the Federal Government. The Director of the Bureau of the Budget shall meet with and advise the Committee.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
July 29, 1949