By virtue of the authority vested in me by the act of August 2, 1946, 60 Stat. 806, it is ordered that sections 2, 3, and 15 of Executive Order No. 985 of November 25, 1946, prescribing regulations governing payment of travel and transportation expenses of civilian officers and employees of the United States when transferred from one official station to another for permanent duty, be, and they are hereby, amended to read as follows:
"SEC. 2. Travel expenses of Employees. Travel expenses of the employee transferred shall be allowed in accordance with the Travel Expense Act of 1949 (Public Law 92, approved June 9, 1949) and the Standardized Government Travel Regulations."
"SEC. 3. Transportation Expenses of Immediate Family. The transportation of the immediate family of an employee shall be subject to those provisions of the Standardized Government Travel Regulations which relate to transportation, including mileage, and shall be in accordance with section 4 of the Travel Expense Act of 1949, whether the travel originates at the employee's last official station or at some previous place of residence and whether the point of destination is the new official station or some other point selected by him, or both. The cost to the Government shall not exceed the cost of transportation by the most economical route between the last official station and the new official station."
"SEC. 15. Advance of Funds. An advance of funds may be allowed employees who are being transferred from one duty station to another within the continental limits of the United States in connection with shipment of their household goods and personal effects. Such advances shall be made under the same safeguards as are required under regulations issued by the Director of the Bureau of the Budget pursuant to authority of the Travel Expense Act of 1949 with respect to advances of funds for travel and shall be chargeable to the appropriation or other funds available for the payment of the travel or transportation expenses. In requesting an advance of funds the applicant shall submit a written statement disclosing the number of rooms containing his personal property which is for shipment, such number of rooms to exclude bathrooms and closets, and reception hallways in apartments. The reported number of rooms shall be multiplied by 1,000, and the result shall be considered the estimated net weight of the prospective shipment. Such statement shall also designate the shipping point and the destination. The estimated weight and the distances between the origin and the destination of the shipment shall be used as the factors required by the schedule of rates to compute the amount of funds which may be advanced in anticipation of the ultimate settlement to be made hereunder."
This order shall be effective as of July 1, 1949.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
July 14, 1949