By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 section 4228 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, as amended by the act of July 24, 1897, c. 13, 30 Stat. 214 (U.S.C. title 46, sec. 141), provides, in part, as follows:
Upon satisfactory proof being given to the President, by the government of any foreign nation, that no discriminating duties of tonnage or imposts are imposed or levied in the ports of such nation upon vessels wholly belonging to citizens of the United States, or upon the produce, manufactures, or merchandise imported in the same from the United States or from any foreign country, the President may issue his proclamation, declaring that the foreign discriminating duties of tonnage and impost within the United States are suspended and discontinued, so far as respects the vessels of such foreign nation, and the produce, manufacturers, or merchandise imported into the United States from such foreign nation, or from any other foreign country; the suspension to take effect from the time of such notification being given to the President, and to continue so long as the reciprocal exemption of vessels, belonging to citizens of the United States, and their cargoes, shall be continued, and no longer . . .
And Whereas
 satisfactory proof was received by me from the Government of the Union of South Africa on April 19, 1949, that no discriminating duties of tonnage or imposts are imposed or levied in the ports of the Union of South Africa upon vessels wholly belonging to citizens of the United States, or upon the produce, manufacturers, or merchandise imported in such vessels, from the United States, or from any foreign country:
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the above-quoted statutory provisions, do hereby declare and proclaim that the foreign discriminating duties of tonnage and imposts within the United States are suspended and discontinued so far as respects the vessels of the Union of South Africa and the produce, manufacturers, or merchandise imported in said vessels into the United States from the Union of South Africa or from any other foreign country; the suspension to take effect from April 19, 1949, and to continue so long as the reciprocal exemption of vessels belonging to citizens of the United States and their cargoes shall be continued, and no longer.
In Testimony Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this 19th day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-nine and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-third. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
DEAN ACHESON,
Secretary of State.