By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the Statues, including the Foreign Service Act of 1946 (60 Stat. 999), and as President of the United States and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States it is ordered as follows:
1. There is hereby established the position of United States High Commission for Germany, which position shall be that of Chief of Mission, Class 1, in accordance with the provisions of the said Foreign Service Act of 1946.
2. The United States High Commissioner for Germany, hereinafter referred to as the High Commissioner, shall be the supreme United States authority in Germany. The High Commissioner shall have the authority, under the immediate supervision of the Secretary of State 9subject, however, to consultation with and ultimate direction by the President), to exercise all of the governmental function of the United States in Germany (other than the command of troops), including the representation of the United States on the Allied High Commission for Germany when established, and the exercise of appropriate functions of a Chief of Mission within the meaning of the foreign Service Act of 1946.
3. With respect to military matters the Commander of the United States Armed Forces in Germany shall continue to receive instructions directly from the Joint Chiefs of Staff. On request of the High Commissioner, such Commander shall take necessary measures for the maintenance of law and order and such other action as is required to support the policy of the United States in Germany. If major differences arise over policy affecting military matters, necessary reports and recommendations shall be referred to the Department of State and to the national Military Establishment for resolution. In the event of an emergency involving the security of the United States forces in Europe, such Commander may take whatever action he considers essential to safeguard the security of his troops.
4. In the vent that the High Commissioner shall assume his duties in accordance with this Executive Order prior to the date that the Military Government of the united Sates Zone of Germany is terminated, he shall during such interval report to the Secretary of Defense, through the Secretary of the Army, and shall be the United States Military Governor with all the powers thereof including those vested in the United Sates Military Governor under all international agreements.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
June 6, 1949