By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 THE Army of the United States is a bulwark of the nation's defense in war and a faithful servant of the people in time of peace; and 
Whereas
, currently, tasks vital to the final establishment of a durable peace are entrusted to the Army and are being performed at home and across the seas; and
Whereas
 Senate Concurrent Resolution 5, 75th Congress, 1st Session, which was agreed to by the House of Representatives on March 16, 1937 (50 Stat. 1108), provides:
That April 6 of each year be recognized by the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United States of America as Army Day, and that the President of the United States be requested, as Commander in Chief, to order military units throughout the United States to assist civic bodies in appropriate celebration to such extent as he may deem advisable; to issue a proclamation each year declaring April 6 as Army Day, and in such proclamations to invite the Governors of the various States to issue Army Day proclamations: Provided, That in the event April 6 falls on Sunday, the following Monday shall be recognized as Army Day:
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Wednesday, April 6, 1949, as Army Day; and I invite the Governors of the various States, Territories, and possessions to issue proclamations for the celebration of that day in such manner as to render appropriate honor to the Army of the United States in all its component parts - the Organized Reserves, the National Guard, and the Regular Army - and to the millions of Army veterans who have returned to civilian pursuits.
As Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States, I desire that Army Commands throughout the Nation mark the designated day with appropriate ceremonies and cooperate with civil authorities and civic bodies in suitable celebration.
I commend to the consideration of my fellow citizens the reflection that our Army is a protector of those values and principles upon which our society is founded.
Since the fortunes of our Nation and the peace of the world depend in part upon the skill, the gallantry, and the uncompromising devotion of the Army of the United States, let us all, on the day appointed, accord to our Army the signal recognition that it deserves.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this 24th day of February in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-third. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
DEAN ACHESON,
Secretary of State.