By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes, including the Defense Production Act of 1950, and as President of the United States and as Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. There is hereby established in the Executive Office of the President the Office of Defense Mobilization. There shall be at the head of such Office a Director of Defense Mobilization, hereinafter called the Director, who shall be appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and who shall receive compensation at the rate of $22,500 per annum.
2. The Director shall on behalf of the President direct, control, and coordinate all mobilization activities of the Executive Branch of the Government, including but not limited to production, procurement, manpower, stabilization, and transport activities.
3. All functions delegated or assigned by or pursuant to the provisions of Executive Orders Nos. 10161 of September 9, 1950 and 10172 of October 12, 1950 shall be performed by the respective officers concerned, subject to the direction and control of the Director.
4. In carrying out the functions conferred upon him by this order, the Director shall from time to time report to the President concerning his operations under this order and issue such directives, consonant with law, on policy and operations to the Federal agencies and departments as may be necessary to carry out the programs developed, the policies established, and the decisions made by the director. It shall be the duty of all such agencies and departments to executive these directives and to make to the Director such progress and other reports as may be required.
5. The Director may perform the functions conferred upon him by the provisions of this order through such officers and such agencies and in such manner as he shall, consonant with law and the provisions of this order, determine.
6. Within the limitations of funds which may be made available, the Director may employ necessary personnel and make provision for supplies, facilities, and services necessary to discharge his responsibilities.
7. To the extent that any provision of any prior Executive order or directive is inconsistent with the provisions of this order, the latter shall control.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
December 16, 1950