By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 Proclamation No. 2608 of March 10, 1944 (58 Stat. 1129), which was issued under the authority of the act of Congress approved September 25, 1941, 55 Stat. 732, the provisions of which have been included in section 9 of title 17 of the United States Code, as codified and enacted into positive law by the act of Congress approved July 30, 1947, 61 Stat. 652, proclaimed an extension of time for compliance with the conditions and formalities prescribed by the copyright laws of the United States of America by British nationals of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, British India, British Burma, Southern Rhodesia, Aden Colony, Bahamas, Barbados, Basutoland, Bechuanaland Protectorate, Bermuda, British Guiana, British Honduras, British Solomon Islands Protectorate, Ceylon, Cyprus Falkland Islands and Dependencies, Fiji, Gambia (Colony and Protectorate), Gibraltar, Gilbert and Ellice Islands Colony, Gold Coast ((a) Colony, (b) Ashanti, (c) Northern Territories), Hong Kong, Jamaica (including Turks and Caicos Islands and the Cayman Islands), Kenya (colony and Protectorate), Leeward Islands (Antigua, Montserrat, St. Christopher and Nevis, Virgin Islands), Malta, Mauritius, Nigeria ((a) Colony, (b) Protectorate), Northern Rhodesia, Nyasaland Protectorate, St. Helena and Ascension, Seychelles, Sierra Leone (Colony and Protectorate), Somaliland Protectorate, Straits Settlements, Swaziland, Trans-Jordan, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda Protectorate, and Windward Islands (Dominica, St. Vincent, Grenada, St. Lucia), and by citizens of Palestine (excluding Trans-Jordan) who had been unable to comply with such conditions and formalities because of the disruption or suspension of the facilities essential to such compliance; and
Whereas
 the said section 9 of title 17 of the United States Code authorizes the President to terminate any such proclamation at any time; and
Whereas
 the said Proclamation No. 2608 provides that the extension of time granted thereby shall continue in effect until such proclamation is suspended or terminated by the President; and
Whereas
 it appears that the nationals and citizens of the aforementioned countries and territories will have had ample time to comply with the conditions and formalities prescribed by the copyright laws of the United States of America by December 29, 1950, and that termination of the proclamation as of that date would be in the interest of the United States of America:
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by the aforesaid section 9 of title 17 of the United States Code, do hereby proclaim that the aforesaid Proclamation No. 1608 of March 10, 1944, and the extension of time granted thereby, shall terminate on December 29, 1950.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this 26th day of May in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-fourth. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
JAMES E. WEBB .
Acting Secretary of State.