By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
In keeping with the custom established by our forefathers and hallowed by faithful observance throughout the years, it is fitting that once again at this season we set aside a day for giving thanks to God for the many blessings which He has bestowed upon us.
We are deeply grateful for the bounties of our soil, for the unequalled production of our mines and factories, and for all the vast resources of our beloved country, which have enabled our citizens to build a great civilization. We are thankful for the enjoyment of our personal liberties and for the loyalty of our fellow Americans.
We offer fervent thanks that we are privileged to join with other countries in the work of the United Nations, which was founded to maintain peace in a troubled world and is now standing firm in upholding the principles of international justice.
Contemplating these blessings with humility, we have a deepened sense of our responsibility to serve unselfishly, and we pray to Almighty God for wisdom in our relations with our fellow men.
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, in conformance with the joint resolution of Congress approved December 26, 1941, designating the fourth Thursday of November in each year as Thanksgiving Day, do hereby proclaim Thursday, November 23, 1950, as a day of national thanksgiving, and I call upon every citizen to offer thanks to God for His gracious guidance and help. Again I ask all my countrymen to appeal to the Most High, that the God of our Fathers who has blessed this land beyond all others will in His infinite mercy grant to all nations that peace which the world cannot give. I entreat them, in church, chapel and synagogue, in their homes and in the busy walks of life, every day and everywhere, to pray for peace.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this 19th day of October in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-fifth. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
DEAN ACHESON,
Secretary of State.