WHEREAS I find that as a result of a labor disturbance there are interruptions, and threatened interruptions, of the operations of the transportation system owned or operated by the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railroad Company; that it has become necessary to take possession and assume control of the said transportation system for purposes that are needful or desirable in connection with the present emergency; and that the exercise, as hereinafter specified, of the powers vested in me is necessary to insure in the national interest the operation of the said transportation system:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the power and authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, including the act of August 29, 1916, 39 Stat. 619, 645, as President of the United States and Commander in Chief of the armed forces of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. Possession, control, and operation of the transportation system owned or operated by the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railroad Company (hereinafter referred to as the company) are hereby taken and assumed, through the Secretary of the Army (hereinafter referred to as the Secretary) as of four o'clock, Eastern Standard Time, July 8, 1950; but such possession and control shall be limited to real and personal property and other assets used or useful in connection with the operation of the said transportation system.
2. The Secretary is directed to operate, or to arrange for the operation of, the transportation system taken pursuant to this order in such manner as he deems necessary to assure to the fullest possible extent continuous and uninterrupted transportation service.
3. In carrying out the provisions of this order the Secretary may act through or with the aid of such public or private instrumentalities or persons as he may designate, and may delegate such of his authority as he may deem necessary or desirable. The Secretary may issue such general and special orders, rules, and regulations as may be necessary or appropriate for carrying out the provisions, and to accomplish the purposes, of this order. All Federal agencies shall comply with the orders of the Secretary issued pursuant to this order and shall cooperate to the fullest extent of their authority with the Secretary in carrying out the provisions of this order.
4. The Secretary shall permit the management of the company to continue its managerial functions to the maximum degree possible consistent with the purpose of this order. Except so far as the Secretary shall from time to time otherwise provide by appropriate order or regulation, the board of directors, officers, and employees of the company shall continue the operation of the said transportation system, including the collection and disbursement of funds thereof, in the usual and ordinary course of the business of the company, in the name of the company, and by means of any agencies, associations, or other instrumentalities now utilized by the company.
5. Except so far as the Secretary shall from time to time otherwise determine and provide by appropriate order or regulation, existing contracts and agreements to which the company is a party shall remain in full force and effect. Nothing in this order shall have the effect of suspending or releasing any obligation owed to the company, and all payments of such obligations shall be made to the company by the persons obligated to the company. Except as the Secretary may otherwise direct, there may be made, in due course, payments of dividends on stock and of principal, interest, sinking funds, and all other distributions upon bonds, debentures, and other obligations; and expenditures may be made for other ordinary corporate purposes.
6. Until further order of the President or the Secretary, the said transportation system shall be managed and operated under the terms and conditions of employment in effect on June 24, 1950, without prejudice to existing equities or to the effectiveness of such retroactive provisions as may be included in the final settlement of the dispute between the company and the workers. The Secretary shall recognize the right of the workers to continue their membership in labor organizations, to bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing with the representatives of the company, subject to the provisions of applicable law, as to disputes between the company and the workers; and to engage in concerted activities for the purpose of such collective bargaining or for other mutual aid or protection, provided that in his opinion such concerted activities do not interfere with the operation of the transportation system taken hereunder.
7. Except as this order otherwise provides and except as the Secretary may otherwise direct, the operation of the transportation system taken hereunder shall be in conformity with the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended, the Railway Labor Act, as amended, the Safety Appliance Acts, the Employers' Liability Acts, and other applicable Federal and State laws, Executive orders, local ordinances, and rules and regulations issued pursuant to such laws, Executive orders, and ordinances.
8. Except with the prior written consent of the Secretary, no receivership, reorganization, or similar proceeding affecting the company shall be instituted; and no attachment by mesne process, garnishment, execution, or otherwise shall be levied on or against any of the real or personal property or other assets of the company.
9. The Secretary is authorized to furnish protection for persons employed or seeking employment in or with the transportation system of which possession is taken hereunder; to furnish protection for such transportation system; and to furnish equipment, manpower, and other facilities or services deemed necessary to carry out the provisions, and to accomplish the purposes, of this order.
10. From and after four o'clock, Eastern Standard Time, on the eighth day of July, 1950, all properties taken under this order shall be conclusively deemed to be within the possession and control of the United States without further act or notice.
11. Possession, control, and operation of the transportation system, or any part thereof, or of any real or personal property taken under this order shall be terminated by the Secretary when he determines that such possession, control, and operation are no longer necessary to carry out the provisions, and to accomplish the purposes, of this order.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
July 8, 1950