WHEREAS by section 33(c) of the Federal Employees Compensation Act (5 U.S.C. 784), as amended by section 209 of the act of October 14, 1949 (Public Law 357, 81st Congress), the Congress declared its purpose to reduce the number of accidents and injuries among Government officers and employees, encourage safe practices, eliminate work hazards and health risks, and reduce compensable injuries; and
WHEREAS by the said act, as amended and as modified by Reorganization Plan No. 19 of 1950, effective May 24, 1950 (15 F.R. 3178), the heads of Government departments and agencies are directed to develop, support, and foster organized safety promotion, and to keep such records of injuries and accidents to persons covered by the said act, and to make such statistical and other reports, as the Secretary of labor may prescribe; and
WHEREAS the President is authorized by the said act, as amended, to establish by Executive order a safety council composed of representatives of Government departments and agencies to serve as an advisory body to the Secretary of Labor in furtherance of the safety program carried out by the Secretary pursuant to section 33 of the aforesaid act, as amended, and to undertake such other measures as he deems proper to prevent injuries and accidents to persons covered by the said act:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 33(c) of the aforesaid Federal Employees Compensation Act, as amended, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. There is hereby established in the Department of Labor the Federal Safety Council, hereinafter referred to as the Council, to serve in an advisory capacity to the Secretary of Labor in matters relating to the safety of civilian employees of the Federal Government and the furtherance of the safety program carried out by the Secretary pursuant to section 33 of the aforesaid Federal Employees Compensation Act, as amended. The Council shall be composed of one qualified representative of each of the several executive departments and agencies, and of the Government of the District of Columbia. Such representatives shall be designated by the heads of the respective departments and agencies, who may also designate suitable alternate representatives. The members of the Council shall serve without additional compensation.
2. The Council shall advise the Secretary of Labor with respect to the development and maintenance of adequate and effective safety organizations and programs in the several Federal departments and agencies and with respect to criteria, standards, and procedures designed to eliminate work hazards and health risks and to prevent injuries and accidents in Federal employment.
3. The Secretary of Labor shall prescribe appropriate regulations governing the activities and functions of the Council, and shall designate the Chairman thereof. The Council may choose such other officers, and establish such committees as it finds necessary for carrying out its functions.
4. The Secretary of Labor is hereby authorized and directed to provide, within the limits of funds available to him for this purpose, such staff and other services and supplies as may be required by the Council in the performance of its duties.
5. Executive Order No. 8071 of March 21, 1939, establishing the Federal interdepartmental Safety Council, is hereby revoked. The records of the said Federal Interdepartmental Safety Council shall be transferred to the Federal Safety Council.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
December 19, 1950