By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. There is hereby created a board to be known as the President's Communications Policy Board which shall be composed of a chairman and four other members to be designated by the President.
2. It shall be the function of the Board to study the present and potential use of radio and wire communications facilities by governmental and non-governmental agencies and to make and present to the President evaluations and recommendations in the national interest concerning (a) policies for the most effective use of radio frequencies by governmental and non-governmental users and alternative administrative arrangements in the Federal Government for the sound effectuation of such policies, (b) policies with respect to international radio and wire communications, (c) the relationship of Government communications to non-government communications, and (d) such related policy matters as the Board may determine.
3. The Board is authorized to hear and consult with representatives of industry and the Federal Government concerned with the subjects under study by the Board. All executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government are authorized and directed to cooperate with the Board in its work and to furnish the Board such information as it may require in the performance of its duties. The Board shall protect the security of any classified information submitted to it.
4. Each member of the Board shall, while away from his home or regular place of business and engaged in the official business of the Board, receive actual traveling expenses and per diem allowances in lieu of subsistence in accordance with rates established by the Standardized Government Travel Regulations, as amended.
5. During the fiscal year 1950 the expenditures of the Board and the traveling expenses and per diem allowances of the members thereof shall be paid out of an allotment made by the President from the appropriation appearing under the heading "Emergency Fund for the President" in the Independent Offices Appropriation Act, 1950 (Public Law 266, approved August 24, 1949); and during the fiscal year 1951 the same shall be similarly paid from any corresponding or like appropriation made available for the fiscal year 1951. Such payments shall be made without regard to the provisions of (a) section 3681 of the Revised Statutes (31 U.S.C. 672), (b) section 9 of the act of March 4, 1909, 35 Stat. 1027 (31 U.S.C. 673), and (c) such other laws as the President may hereafter specify.
The Board shall terminate one year after the date of this order.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
February 17, 1950