By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 311 of the Foreign Service Act of 1946, 60 Stat. 1002 (22 U. S. C. 846), and as President of the United States, I hereby prescribe the following regulations with respect to the reporting functions of the Foreign Service of the United States:
SECTION 1. As used in this order, the words "foreign data" shall mean any data obtained or to be obtained in foreign countries, including reports, statistics, and publications.
SEC. 2. Subject to the provisions of this order, the Department of State shall obtain for any Federal department or agency, through the Foreign Service of the United States, such foreign data as such department or agency may request through the Department of State.
SEC. 3. The Secretary of State is authorized and directed to prepare and maintain, for use in carrying out the purposes of this order, (a) a comprehensive statement of the types of foreign data appropriate to be obtained through the Foreign Service which would be of substantial use to the United States, with due attention in the preparation of this statement to the relative importance of the several types of data, and (b) standards which shall govern the determination by the Department of State to transmit or not to transmit to the Foreign Service, for action, any request for foreign data, and which shall also govern the assignment of priorities by the Department of State to the several requests transmitted by it to the Foreign Service for action. In connection with the preparation of the said statement and standards and any revision thereof, the Department of State shall afford interested Federal departments and agencies opportunity for consultation and shall accord their advice appropriate consideration.
SEC. 4. The Department of State may assign priorities to requests for foreign data, which priorities shall govern the Foreign Service in connection with the furnishing of the requested data; and it may take such measures as may be necessary or appropriate to keep the work falling upon the Foreign Service by reason of the furnishing of data to Federal departments and agencies within the resources of the Foreign Service available for such work. In carrying out the provisions of this section, the Department of State shall, to the extent practicable, be guided by the determinations of any other department or agency requesting foreign data as to the relative priorities of any two or more requests made by such department or agency.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
June 4, 1951