By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, including the Trading with the Enemy Act of October 6, 1917, 40 Stat. 411, as amended, the Philippine Property Act of 1946, 60 Stat. 418, a amended, section 1753 of the Revised Statutes, the Civil Service Act, 22 Stat. 403, and section 101(b) of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1947, 61 Stat. 951, and as President of the United Stares, and in effectuation of those provisions of the General Appropriation Act, 1951, relating to the Philippine Alien Property Administration, it is ordered as follows:
1. The Philippine Alien Property Administration, established by Executive Order No. 9818 of January 7, 1947, is hereby terminated. All authority, rights, privileges, powers, duties, and functions vested in such Administration or in the Philippine Alien Property Administrator or transferred to delegated thereto are hereby vested in or transferred or delegated to the Attorney General, as the case may be, and shall be administered by him or under his direction and control by such officers and agencies of the Department of Justice as he may designate.
2. All property or interests vested in or transferred to the Philippine Alien Property Administration or the Administrator thereof and all proceeds thereof, which are held or administered by the Philippine Alien Property Administration or the Administrator thereof are hereby transferred to the Attorney General of the United States.
3. All personnel, records, files, furniture, funds, authorizations, equipment, and supplies of the Philippine Alien Property Administration are hereby transferred to the Department of Justice.
4. All necessary expenses incurred in the administration or operation of the functions, duties, authority, rights, privileges, and power hereby vested in or transferred or delegated to the Attorney General shall be paid, to the extent permitted and in the manner prescribed by law, from funds or property or interests vested in or transferred to the Attorney General by or pursuant to the authority contained in this order, so as to prevent diminution of funds otherwise available for the War Claims Fund under section 39 of the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended by section 12 of the act of July 3, 1948. 62 Stat. 1246.
This order shall become effective at the close of business in Washington, D.C., on June 29, 1951, and shall at that time supersede all prior Executive orders to the extent that they are in conflict with this order.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
June 15, 1951