By virtue of the authority vested in me by Public Law 679, 81st Congress, 2d Session, approved August 9, 1950, which amended section 1, Title II of the act of June 15, 1917, 40 Stat. 220 (50 U.S.C. 191), and as President of the United States, I hereby prescribed the following amendments of the regulations prescribed by Executive Order 10173 of October 18, 1940, (1) which regulations constitute Part 6, Subchapter A, Chapter I, Title 33 of the Code of Federal Regulations:
1. Paragraph (a) of § 6.04-1 is amended to read as follows:
§ 6.04-1 Enforcement. (a) The rules and regulations in this part shall be enforced by the captain of the port under the supervision and general direction of the District Commander and the Commandant, and all authority and power vested in the captain of the port by the regulations in this part shall be deemed vested in and may be exercised by the District Commander and the Commandant.
2. Section 6.10-1 is amended to read as follows:
§ 6.10-1 Issuance of documents and employment of persons aboard vessels. No person shall be issued a document required for employment on a merchant vessel of the United States nor shall any licensed officer or certificated man be employed on a merchant vessel of the United States unless the Commandant is satisfied that the character and habits of life of such person are such as to authorize the belief that the presence of the individual on board would not be inimical to the security of the United States: Provided, That the Commandant may designate categories of merchant vessels to which the foregoing shall not apply.
3. Section 6.10-7 is amended to read as follows:
§ 6.10-7 Identification credentials. The identification credential to be issued by the Commandant shall be known as the Coast Guard Port Security Card, and the form of such credential, and the conditions and the manner of its issuance shall be as prescribed by the Commandant after consultation with the Secretary of Labor. The Commandant shall not issue a Coast Guard Port Security Card unless he is satisfied that the character and habits of life of the applicant therefor are such as to authorize the belief that the presence of such individual on board a vessel or within a waterfront facility would not be inimical to the security of the United States. The Commandant shall revoke and require the surrender of a Coast Guard Port Security Card when he is no longer satisfied that the holder is entitled thereto. The Commandant may recognize for the same purpose such other credentials as he may designate in lieu of the Coast Guard Port Security Card.
4. A new subpart 6.14 is added to read as follows:
SUBPART 6.14-SECURITY OF WATERFRONT FACILITIES AND VESSELS IN PORT
§ 6.14-1 Safety measures. The Commandant, in order to achieve the purposes of these regulations, may prescribe such conditions and restrictions relating to the safety of waterfront facilities and vessels in port as he finds to be necessary under existing circumstances. Such conditions and restrictions may extend, but shall not be limited to, the inspection, operation, maintenance, guarding, and manning of, and fire-prevention measures for, such vessels and waterfront facilities.
§ 6.14-2 Condition of waterfront facility a danger to vessel. Whenever the captain of the port finds that the mooring of any vessel to a wharf, dock, pier, or other waterfront structure would endanger such vessel, or any other vessel, or the harbor or any facility therein by reason of conditions existing on or about such wharf, dock, pier, or other waterfront structure, including, but not limited to, inadequate guard service, insufficient lighting, fire hazards, inadequate fire protection, unsafe machinery, internal disturbance, or unsatisfactory operation, the captain of the port may prevent the mooring of any vessel to such wharf, dock, pier, or other waterfront structure until the unsatisfactory condition or conditions so found are corrected, and he may, for the same reasons, after any vessel has been moored, compel the shifting of such vessel from any such wharf, dock, pier, or other waterfront structure.
5. A new subpart 6.19 is added to read as follows:
SUBPART 6.19-RESPONSIBILITY FOR SECURITY OF VESSELS AND WATERFRONT FACILITIES
§ 6.19-1 Primary responsibility. Nothing contained in this part shall be construed as relieving the masters, owners, operators, and agents of vessels or other waterfront facilities from their primary responsibility for the protection and security of such vessels or waterfront facilities.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
August 1, 1951