By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, including the Trading with the Enemy Act of October 6, 1917 (50 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), as amended, and the act of September 28, 1950 (Public Law 857, 81st Congress), and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. The Secretary of State and the Attorney General are hereby jointly designated as the officers authorized to conclude and give effect to agreements relating to the settlement of intercustodial conflicts involving enemy property made pursuant to the said act of September 28, 1950, and to exercise all powers incident thereto which are conferred by such act, including, without limitation, the powers to receive, transfer, release, or return property, interests therein, or proceeds thereof.
2. It is the policy of this order that the Secretary of State, with the concurrence of the Attorney General, shall perform all functions necessary or appropriate to give effect to any agreement made pursuant to the said act of September 28, 1950, with relation to the protection of American interests in property outside the United States, and that the Attorney General, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, shall perform all functions necessary or appropriate to give effect to any such agreement with relation to property subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, and that all other functions relating to the effectuation of any such agreement shall be performed as may be agreed by the Secretary of State and the Attorney General. However, no action taken hereunder by either the Secretary of State or the Attorney General shall be considered to be invalid on the ground that under the provisions of this order such action was within the jurisdiction of the Secretary of State rather than the Attorney General, or vice versa, or that concurrence was not obtained, or that such action was not joint.
3. The Secretary of State and the Attorney General may each delegate to the other or to any other officer, person, or agency within his respective department such of his functions under this order as he may deem necessary.
4. Any money, property, or interest received as reimbursement by the United States by virtue of any agreement made pursuant to the said act of September 28, 1950, shall be administered and disposed of by the Attorney General as vested property pursuant to the said Trading With the Enemy Act, as amended. Any other money, property, or interest received by the Secretary of State or the Attorney General pursuant to any such agreement shall be administered and disposed of pursuant to the provisions of such agreement.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 17, 1951