By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 certain lands in the municipality of Eastport, Maine, were acquired at various times by the War Department for use as a military reservation known as Fort Sullivan; and
Whereas
 the said lands, being no longer needed for military purposes, were placed under the control of the Secretary of the Interior, by a proclamation of the President dated July 22, 1884, for disposition in accordance with the provision of the act of July 5, 1884, 23 Stat. 103 (43 U.S.C. 1071-1074); and
Whereas
 a portion of the said lands designated as Lot 14 was reserved from such disposition by the Secretary of the Interior because the municipality of Eastport had erected thereon a waterstand pipe; and
Whereas
 the said municipality of Eastport is now the City of Eastport, Maine, a municipal corporation, which has requested that the said Lot 14 be transferred to it for public use; and
Whereas
 it appears that such a transfer would be in the public interest;
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States, under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by the act of March 3, 1893, 27 Stat. 572, 593 (43 U.S.C. 1076), do hereby grant and transfer to the said City of Eastport, Maine, for public use the said Lot 14, containing 1.03 acres, as shown on the map of the said Fort Sullivan, in Eastport, Maine, surveyed by A.W. Barber, detailed clerk of the General Land Office, in November 1900, a copy of which map is recorded in the Washington County, Main, Registry of Deeds; excepting and reserving therefrom the following-described tract of land for the use of the United States Weather Bureau, Department of Commerce, in the operation and maintenance of a storm-warning tower, together with the right of access thereto over the existing road and sidewalk:
From corner No. 7, Lot 14 on east line of High Street, S. 83 ¼ E. 120 feet to center of City Stand Pipe; thence S. 57 ½ E. 65 feet to N.E. corner of 30-ft. square Weather Bureau Warning Tower tract; thence from point of beginning, on boundaries of said tract, south 30 feet; west 30 feet; north 30 feet; east 30 feet to N.E. corner of Warning Tower tract, containing 900 square feet.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this 15th day of November in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-seventh. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
DAVID BRUCE,
Acting Secretary of State.