WHEREAS on February 1 1952, Newbold Morris, Esquire, of New York, was, with my approval, appointed Special Assistant to the Attorney General to perform the following functions:
(a) Conduct investigations leading to the detection of, and appropriate action with respect to, any officers or employees of the Federal Government, and other persons, who may be guilty of improper or illegal conduct relating to the performance of official business of the Federal Government.
(b) Conduct investigations, undertake studies, and make periodic recommendations to the President and the Attorney General for the correction and prevention of improper or illegal acts relating to the transaction of official business of the Federal Government.
(c) Recommend to the Attorney General the initiation of prosecutions and other legal actions which may be warranted on the basis of facts ascertained in the course of such investigations or studies.
(d) Report to appropriate authorities any facts ascertained in the course of such investigations or studies which indicate that removal or other disciplinary action would be warranted with respect to any officer or employee of the Federal Government:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes, and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. All executive departments and agencies are authorized and directed to cooperate fully with the said Special Assistant to the Attorney General; to furnish him, to the extent not inconsistent with law, such information, personnel, and other assistance, including papers, records, and documents, as he may require in the performance of his functions; and to give the highest priority to any requests made by him in carrying out his responsibilities.
SEC. 2 Employees of the executive branch of the Government detailed to the staff of the said Special Assistant to the Attorney General shall, as required by him, work under his direction and control so long as they are so detailed.
SEC. 3. When requested to do so by the said Special Assistant to the Attorney General, or by any of his authorized representatives, persons employed in the executive branch of the Government shall give such testimony and shall submit to such examinations, not inconsistent with law, as the said Special Assistant to the Attorney General may require in the performance of his functions.
SEC. 4. During the fiscal year ending June 30, 1952, the compensation and expenditures of the said Special Assistant to the Attorney General and his staff may be paid, subject to and in accordance with an allotment to be made by the President from the appropriation entitled "Emergency Fund for the President-National Defense" contained in Title III of the Independent Offices Appropriation Act, 1952 (Public Law 137, 82d Congress), approved August 31, 1951.
SEC. 5. This order shall cease to be effective on December 31, 1952.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
February 20, 1952