By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 2061), and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. There are hereby transferred from the Department of Commerce to the Small Defense Plants Administration the functions with respect to
(1) any assistance given to small-business establishments concerning Government procurement,
(2) the furnishing of advice to small-business establishments concerning the approval and operation of small-business production pools,
(3) the classification of manufacturing concerns according to size,
(4) economic studies of small-business defense problems, exclusive of so much of such studies as is necessary to be made by the National Production Authority or its successor to determine the effect of actions taken by it,
(5) the furnishing of advice and information concerning Government financial assistance to small business,
(6) the coordination of the inventorying of the available productive capacity of small business, and 
(7) the development and distribution of managerial aids for small business, excluding that part thereof which is performed for or otherwise relates to educational institutions which were on December 1, 1951, administered by the Office of Small Business in the national Production Authority, Department of Commerce.
SEC. 2. The functions hereinabove transferred shall be administered by the Small Defense Plants Administrator o, subject to his direction and control, by such officers and employees of the Small Defense Plants Administration as he shall designate.
SEC. 3. Officers of the Government exercising functions which are pertinent to the responsibilities of the Small Defense Plants Administration shall facilitate the discharge of those responsibilities by keeping the Small Defense Plants Administrator currently informed with respect to the exercise of such functions, including prospective actions, and by providing for participation in deliberations affecting small businesses by representatives of the Small Defense Plants Administration.
SEC. 4. There shall be transferred to the Small Defense Plants Administration so much of the personnel, records, property, and unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, and other funds of the Department of Commerce as the Director of the Bureau of the Budge shall, with the approval of the President, determine to relate primarily to the functions transferred by section 1 of this order.
SEC. 5. The provisions of sections 902 and 903 of Executive Order No. 10161, as amended (including those with respect to subpoena), are hereby made applicable to the Small Defense Plants Administrator with respect to his functions under section 714 of the Defense Production Act, as amended, and under this order.
SEC. 6. To the extent that any provision of any prior Executive order or directive is inconsistent with the provisions of this order, the latter shall control
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
February 5, 1952