By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. This order shall apply to all executive department, independent agencies, and Government-owned or Government-controlled corporations, including their field services.
SEC. 2. As used in this order:
(a) "Holiday" means the first day of January, the twenty-second day of February, the thirtieth day of May, the fourth day of July, the first Monday of September, the eleventh day of November, the fourth Thursday of November, the twenty-fifth day of December, or any other calendar day designated as a holiday by Federal statute or Executive order.
(b) "Workday" means those hours which comprise in sequence the employee's regular daily tour of duty within any 24-hour period, whether falling entirely within one calendar day or not.
SEC. 3. Whenever a holiday falls on a Sunday, Federal offices and establishments shall be closed to public business on the following Monday.
SEC. 4. (a) Any employee whose basic workweek does not include Sunday and who would ordinarily be excused from work on a holiday falling within his basic workweek shall be excused from work on the next workday of his basic workweek whenever a holiday falls on Sunday. 
(b) Any employee whose basic workweek includes Sunday and who would ordinarily be excused from work on a holiday falling within his basic workweek shall be excused from work on the next workday of his basic workweek whenever a holiday falls on a day that has been administratively scheduled as his "regular" weekly non-workday in lieu of Sunday.
SEC. 5. Any employee who would ordinarily be excused from work on a holiday falling within his basic workweek shall be excused from work on the next workday of his basic workweek whenever the first Monday of September or the fourth Thursday of November, or any other holiday which always occurs on a specific day of the calendar week (other than Sunday), falls on a day outside the employee's regular basic workweek.
SEC. 6. Any employee whose workday covers portions of two calendar days and who would, except for this section, ordinarily be excused from work scheduled for the hours of any calendar day on which a holiday falls, shall instead be excused from work on his entire workday which commences on any such calendar day.
SEC. 7. In administering the provisions of law relating to pay and leave of absence, the workdays referred to in sections 4, 5, and 6 shall be treated as holidays in lieu of the corresponding calendar holidays.
SEC. 8. This order shall become effective sixty days after the date hereof, and shall supersede Executive Order No. 9636 of October 3, 1945, entitled "Observance by Government Agencies of Holidays Falling on Sundays".
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
June 9, 1952