By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Mutual Security Act of 1951, as amended, the Act for International Development, as amended, and sections 301 to 303, inclusive, of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. International development. (a) The functions conferred upon the Secretary of State by Executive Order No. 10159 of September 8, 1950, 15 P.R. 6103, are hereby transferred to the Director for Mutual Security; and, accordingly, the said Executive order is amended by striking therefrom, wherever they appear, the words "Secretary of State" and inserting in lieu thereof, in each instance, the words "Director for Mutual Security."
(b) The Technical Cooperation Administration is hereby transferred from the Department of State to the jurisdiction of the Director for Mutual Security and shall be administered under his direction and supervision.
SEC 2. Participation in certain international organizations. There are hereby delegated to the Director for Mutual Security the functions conferred upon the President by section 534 of the Mutual Security Act of 1951, as amended, section 12 of the Mutual Security Act of 1952, and section 303 of the Mutual Security Act of 1951, as amended, with respect to the Intergovernmental Committee for European Migration (as the successor of the Provisional Intergovernmental Committee for the Movement of Migrants from Europe), the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund, and the United Nations Korean Reconstruction Agency, respectively.
SEC. 3. Ocean freight charges on relief supplies, etc. The Mutual Security Agency is hereby designated as the agency of the Government which shall hereafter exercise the authority to pay ocean freight charges on shipments of relief supplies and packages under section 117 (c) of the Economic Cooperation Act of 1948, as amended, and section 535 of the Mutual Security Act of 1951, as amended.
SEC 4. Functions of Secretary of State and Department of State, (a) Nothing in this order shall be deemed to modify the functions of the Secretary of State with respect to conducting negotiations with other governments.
(b) The Secretary of State and the Director for Mutual Security shall establish and maintain arrangements which will insure that the functions of the said Director under this order shall be carried out in conformity with the established foreign policy of the United States.
(c) The Secretary of State shall be responsible for making the United States contributions, under subsections (a) and (b) of section 404 of the Act for International Development, to the United Nations for technical cooperation programs carried on by it and its related organizations, and to the Organization of American States, its related organizations, and other international organizations for technical cooperation programs carried on by them, and for making United States contributions to the international organizations referred to in section 2 hereof. The Secretary of State shall also be responsible for formulating and presenting, with the assistance of the Director for Mutual Security, the policy of the United States with respect to the assistance programs of the international organizations referred to in this subsection and in section 2 hereof and for representing the United States in those organizations. Sections 1 (a) and 2 hereof shall be subject to this subsection.
(d) The Director for Mutual Security shall allocate to the Department of State funds which have been or may be appropriated or otherwise made available for contributions of the United States to the international organizations referred to in section 2 hereof or to those receiving contributions under subsections (a) and (b) of section 404 of the Act for International Development.
SEC. 5. Miscellaneous provisions, (a) Subsection (a) of section 2 and sections 3 and 4 of Executive Order No. 10300 of November 1, 1951, as amended by Executive Order No. 10368 of June 30, 1952, are hereby revoked.
(b) There shall be transferred to the jurisdiction of the Director for Mutual Security, consonant with law, so much as the Director of the Bureau of the Budget shall determine of the personnel, property, records, and unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, and other funds, employed, held, used, available, or to be made available in connection with the functions transferred, delegated, or assigned to the Director for Mutual Security or the Mutual Security Agency by this order. Such further measures and dispositions as the Director of the Bureau of the Budget shall deem to be necessary in order to effectuate the transfers provided for in this section shall be carried out in such manner as he shall direct and by such agencies as he shall designate.
(c) To the extent that any provision of any prior Executive order is inconsistent with the provisions of this order, the latter shall control and such prior provision is amended accordingly.
(d) All orders, regulations, rulings, certificates, directives, agreements, contracts, delegations, determinations, and other actions of any officer or agency of the Government relating to any function affected by this order shall remain in effect except as they are inconsistent herewith or are hereafter amended or revoked under proper authority.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
June 1, 1953.