WHEREAS a prosperous agriculture is fundamental to the national interest and general welfare; and
WHEREAS the development of sound Federal farm policies and the effective administration of Federal agricultural programs are high national duties; and
WHEREAS the better formulation of farm policies and the improved administration of agricultural programs would be furthered by the establishment of a commission composed of farmers and others closely connected with agriculture to render advice to the Secretary of Agriculture:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. There is hereby established the National Agricultural Advisory Commission, hereinafter referred to as the Commission, which shall be composed of eighteen members who shall be appointed by the President, not more than nine of whom shall be members of a single political party. At least twelve of the members of the Commission shall be representative farmers. The members of the Commission shall be appointed with a view toward granting appropriate representation to the several geographic sections of the United States. Of the members first appointed one-third shall be for a term ending January 31, 1955, one-third for a term ending January 31, 1956, and one-third for a term ending January 31, 1957. Successors shall be appointed for a term of three years. The chairman of the Commission shall be designated by the President.
SEC. 2. The Commission shall from time to time, upon the request of the Secretary of Agriculture, hereinafter referred to as the Secretary, (a) review the policies and administration of farm programs within the jurisdiction of the Department of Agriculture, or any part of such policies and administration, and such related matters as the Secretary shall determine, and (b) advise the Secretary in regard thereto. The Commission shall meet at such times and places as the Secretary shall designate. The Secretary shall arrange at least one meeting of the Commission during each quarter of each calendar year.
SEC 3. Pending the availability of a specific appropriation for the expenses of the Commission, no Federal funds shall be expended in connection with the Commission.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
July 20, 1953.