By virtue of the authority vested in me by Title I of the Universal Military Training and Service Act (62 Stat. 604), as amended, I hereby prescribe the following amendments of the Selective Service Regulations prescribed by Executive Orders No. 10292 of September 25, 1951, and No. 10420 of December 17, 1952, and constituting portions of Chapter XVI of Title 32 of the Code of Federal Regulations:
1. Paragraphs (e) and (f) of section 1622.12 of Part 1622, Classification Rules and Principles, are amended to read as follows:
"(e) Every registrant who after being inducted into the armed forces under the provisions of section 4 (a) of title I of the Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended, has served honorably therein for a period of six months or more, and who (1) has been separated therefrom by honorable discharge or discharge under honorable conditions, or by an equivalent type of release from service, except when such discharge or release was because of erroneous induction, or (2) has been transferred to a reserve component of the armed forces. Each such registrant who has been transferred to a reserve component of the armed forces shall be identified with the abbreviation 'Res.' in the manner provided in ยง 1622.65, and every other such registrant shall be identified with the abbreviation 'Disc' in the manner provided in ยง 1622.64, and upon attaining an age beyond the maximum age of liability for military service under the provisions of the selective service law, all such registrants shall be reclassified in Class V-A.
"(f) Every registrant who on or after June 24, 1948, has entered upon active duty in the armed forces, other than active duty for training only or active duty for the sole purpose of undergoing a physical examination, and has served honorably therein for a period of six months or more, and (1) who has been separated therefrom by honorable discharge or discharge under honorable conditions or by an equivalent type of release from service, except when such discharge or release was because of minority or erroneous enlistment, or (2) who has been separated therefrom by honorable discharge or discharge under honorable conditions or by an equivalent type of release from service and transferred to a reserve component of the armed forces, or (3) who has been transferred to a reserve component of the armed forces. Each such registrant who has been transferred to a reserve component of the armed forces shall be identified with the abbreviation 'Res.' in the manner provided in ยง 1622.65, and every other such registrant shall be identified with the abbreviation 'Disc.' in the manner provided in ยง 1622.64, and upon attaining an age beyond the maximum age of liability for military service under the provisions of the selective service law, all such registrants shall be reclassified in Class V-A."
2. Paragraphs (c) and (e) of section 1650.8 of Part 1650, Registration, Classification. Physical Examination, Selection, and Induction of Persons in Medical, Dental, and Allied Specialist Categories, are amended to read as follows:
"(c) In registering persons who are in priority one or priority two, as defined in paragraphs (2), (4), and (5) of section 4 (i) of title I of the Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended, the registrar shall not issue the Registration Certificate (SSS Form No. 2) after the Registration Card (SSS Form No. 1) has been signed by a special registrant but shall give the special registrant a Classification Questionnaire (SSS Form No. 100), three copies of Initial Data for Classification and Commissioning in Medical Services for Medical, Dental and Veterinary Corps (DD Form No. 390), and a return envelope addressed to the local board of the registrar, which forms shall be completed by the special registrant and mailed to the local board in the return envelope within five days after his registration." * * * * * 
"(e) In registering persons who are in priority three or priority four, as defined in paragraphs (2), (4), and (5) of section 4 (i) of title I of the Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended, the registrar shall not issue the Registration Certificate (SSS Form No. 2) after the Registration Card (SSS Form No. 1) has been signed by a special registrant but shall deliver the registration card to the local board of the registrar. The Registration Card (SSS Form No. 1) of such a special registrant shall then be processed, and the Registration Certificate (SSS Form No. 2) shall be prepared and mailed to the special registrant, in the manner provided in paragraph (d) of this section. The Classification Questionnaire (SSS Form No. 100) and the Initial Data for Classification and Commissioning in Medical Services for Medical, Dental and Veterinary Corps (DD Form No. 390) shall not be delivered to registrants who are in priority three or four until such time as is fixed by the Director of Selective Service."
3. (a) Subparagraph (2) of paragraph (e) of section 1650.11 of Part 1650 is amended to read as follows:
"(2) A special registrant shall be placed in Class I-C if he has been inducted into, the armed forces under the provisions of section 4 (i) of the Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended, and thereafter has served on active duty for a period of twelve months or more, and has been separated from the armed forces by honorable discharge or discharge under honorable conditions or by an equivalent type of release from service, or has been so separated and transferred to a reserve component of the armed forces. Each such special registrant who has been transferred to a reserve component of the armed forces shall be identified on all records by following his classification with the abbreviation "Res.', and every other such special registrant shall be similarly identified with the abbreviation 'Disc.'. Upon attaining the fifty-first anniversary of the day of his birth, each such special registrant shall be reclassified in Class V-A."
(b) Paragraph (1) of section 1650.11 is amended to read as follows:
"(1) (DA special registrant shall be placed in Class IV-A if he is the sole surviving son of a family of which one or more sons or daughters were killed In action or died in line of duty while serving in the Armed Forces of the United States, or subsequently died as a result of injuries received or disease incurred during such service.
(2) A special registrant shall be placed in Class IV-A if he has served in the active service, as defined In paragraphs (4) and (5) of section 4 (i) of the Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended, since September 16, 1940, for a period of twenty-one months or more.
(3) A special registrant shall be placed in Class IV-A if he is not registered and is not required to register under section 3 of the Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended, and subsequent to September 9, 1950, was called or ordered to active duty as a commissioned member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States, and thereafter has served on active duty for a period of twelve months or more, and has been separated from such reserve component by discharge or acceptance of his resignation of his commission."
4. Paragraph (e) of section 1650.30 of Part 1650 is amended to read as follows:
"(e) The State Director of Selective Service shall maintain a record at State Headquarters of the name, local board, date of birth, specialist category, and number of order of priority under paragraphs (2). (4), and (5) of section 4 (i) of title I of the Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended, of each special registrant who has been found acceptable for service in the armed forces. After the State Director of Selective Service has entered this information on such record, he shall forward the records received from the final examining agency of the armed forces for each special registrant to the registrant's local board."
5. Paragraph (b) of section 1650.40 of Part 1650 is amended to read as follows:
"(b) Special calls for specified numbers of male persons in any medical, dental, or allied specialist category shall, on the basis of the best information then available, be allocated, by the Director of Selective Service among the several States and by each State Director of Selective Service among the local boards in his State, in such manner that special registrants in each specialist category who are in Class I-A and Class I-A-O and have been found acceptable for service in the armed forces shall, on a Nation-wide basis within the Nation and a State-wide basis within each State, be ordered for induction in the following manner:
(1) Within each specialist category, those special registrants who are in a lower numbered order of priority as defined in paragraphs (2), (4), and (5) of section 4 (i) of title I of the Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended, shall be ordered to report for induction before special registrants who are in a higher numbered order of priority.
(2) Those special registrants who are in priority one or priority three, as defined in paragraphs (2), (4), and (5) of section 4 (i) of title I of the Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended, shall be ordered to report for induction in the order of their dates of birth with the youngest being selected first.
(3) Those special registrants who are in priority two or priority four, as defined in paragraphs (2), (4), and (5) of section 4 (i) of title I of the Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended, shall be ordered to report for induction according to their length of active service, as defined in paragraphs (4) and (5) of section 4 (1) of that Act, with those having the least number of full months of such service being selected first."
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
December 10, 1953.