By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes, including section 11 (a) of the Refugee Relief Act of 1953 (Public Law 203, 83d Congress, approved August 7, 1953), and as President of the United States, It is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. The Department of State is designated as the agency of the Government of the United States which shall, subject to the provisions of section 2 hereof, make or prepare the thorough investigations and written reports required by section 11 (a) of the said Refugee Relief Act of 1953, regarding the character, reputation, mental and physical health, history, and eligibility under the said act, of persons seeking admission into the United States under the act.
SEC 2. The Department of the Army and such other agencies of the Government as the Department of State may request shall, in accordance with arrangements agreed upon between the Department of State and any such agency, furnish the Department of State such assistance as it may need in carrying out its responsibilities under section 1 of this order.
SEC 3. The funds appropriated under the heading "Emergency Migration" appearing in Chapter VII of the Supplemental Appropriation Act, 1954 (Public Law 207, 83d Congress, approved August 7, 1953), are hereby transferred to the Department of State. The Secretary of State may allocate to agencies other than the Department of State such portions of the transferred funds as he shall determine.
SEC. 4. The Director of the Bureau of the Budget is authorized and empowered to exercise the authority conferred upon the President by the paragraph appearing under the aforesaid heading "Emergency Migration" to transfer not to exceed sixty-five passenger motor vehicles, without reimbursement, to carry out the migration program authorized by the said Refugee Relief Act of 1953.
SEC 5. The Secretary of State shall promulgate the regulations provided for in section 7 (a) of the said Refugee Relief Act of 1953.
SEC 6. The Secretary of the Treasury shall promulgate the rules and regulations provided for in section 16 of the said Refugee Relief Act of 1953.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
September 16, 1953.