By virtue of the authority vested in me by the laws of the United States, including section 1753 of the Revised Statutes (5 U.S.C. 631) and the Civil Service Act of January 16, 1883 (22 Stat. 403), and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. The Chairman of the United States Civil Service Commission shall, in addition to the functions conferred upon him by statute and by Reorganization Plan No. 5 of 1949, perform the following-described functions with respect to Federal civilian personnel employed in the United States and abroad:
(a) Assist the President in the execution of his duties with respect to personnel management, and advise and assist the President concerning personnel management actions to be taken by or under the direction of the President, exclusive of actions with respect to Presidential appointments.
(b) Assist the President in the formulation and execution of his civilian personnel-management program, the establishment of policies and standards for the guidance of the executive departments and agencies, and the evaluation of departmental and agency personnel management programs and operations under such policies and standards.
(c) Undertake on behalf of the President, and in collaboration with the Bureau of the Budget, a program designed to raise the level of effectiveness of personnel management in the executive departments and agencies, to improve steadily all civilian personnel-management systems, and to bring about the proper coordination in personnel management among the executive departments and agencies.
SEC. 2. The Chairman of the Civil Service Commission shall perform his functions under this order with the assistance of such personnel of the White House Office as may be provided for that purpose and with such assistance of personnel of the Civil Service Commission as may be appropriate.
SEC. 3. There are hereby revoked (1) section 4 of Part II of Executive Order No. 8248 of September 8, 1939, defining the functions of the Liaison Office for Personnel Management, and (2) to the extent that they relate to the Liaison Office for Personnel Management, Parts I, III, IV, and VI of that order. The said Liaison Office for Personnel Management is hereby abolished, and the White House Office shall take such measures as may be necessary to wind up the affairs of the abolished office.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 1, 1953.