By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
, pursuant to section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as added by section 31 of the act of August 24, 1935, 49 Stat. 773, reenacted by section 1 of the act of June 3, 1937, 50 Stat. 246, and as amended by section 3 of the act of July 3, 1948, 62 Stat. 1248, section 3 of the act of June 28, 1950, 64 Stat. 261, and section 8 (b) of the act of June 16, 1951, Public Law 50, 82d Congress (7 U.S.C. 624) , the Secretary of Agriculture advised me that he had reason to believe that upon the expiration of section 104 of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended, the products included in the lists appended to and made a part of this proclamation are practically certain to be imported into the United States under such conditions and in such quantities as to render or tend to render ineffective, or materially interfere with, programs undertaken by the Department of Agriculture with respect to certain of such articles or with respect to products from which certain of such articles are processed, or to reduce substantially the amount of one or more of such articles processed in the United States from agricultural commodities with respect to which a program of the Department of Agriculture is being undertaken;
Whereas
, having agreed with the Secretary of Agriculture's reason for such belief, I caused the United States Tariff Commission to make an investigation under the said section 22 with respect to the said articles ;
Whereas
 the said Tariff Commission has made such an investigation and has reported to me its findings and recommendations made in connection therewith;
Whereas
, on the basis of the said investigation and report of the Tariff Commission, I find that in the event section 104 of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended, expires under its present terms, the articles included in the lists appended to and made a part of this proclamation are practically certain to be imported into the United States under such conditions and in such quantities as to render or tend to render ineffective, or materially interfere with, programs or operations undertaken by the Department of Agriculture or agencies operating under its direction, pursuant to sections 101, 201, 301, and 401 of the Agricultural Act of 1949, as amended, and Part VI of Title III of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938, as amended, with respect to certain of such articles or with respect to products from which certain of such articles are processed, or to reduce substantially the amount of certain of such articles processed in the United States from agricultural commodities with respect to which the said programs or operations of the United States Department of Agriculture are being undertaken ; and
Whereas
 I find and declare that in the event section 104 of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended, expires under its present terms, the imposition of the fees and quantitative limitations hereinafter proclaimed is shown by such investigation of the Tariff Commission to be necessary in order that the entry, or withdrawal from warehouse, for consumption of such articles will not render or tend to render ineffective, or materially interfere with, the said programs or operations, or reduce substantially the amount of products processed in the United States from agricultural commodities with respect to which certain of the said programs or operations are being undertaken:
Now, Therefore, I, Dwight D. Eisenhower
, President of the United States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by the said section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended, do hereby proclaim that on and after July 1, 1953, articles included in the lists appended to and hereby made a part of this proclamation shall be subject to quantitative limitations and fees, as follows:
1. Articles included in Lists I and II (except peanuts) shall be permitted to be entered only by or for the account of a person or firm to whom a license has been issued by or under the authority of the Secretary of Agriculture, and only in accordance with the terms of such license. Such licenses shall be issued under regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture which he determines will, to the fullest extent practicable, result in (1) the equitable distribution of the respective quotas for such articles among importers or users and (2) the allocation of shares of the respective quotas for such articles among supplying countries, based upon the proportion supplied by such countries during previous representative periods, taking due account of any special factors which may have affected or may be affecting the trade in the articles concerned. No licenses shall be issued which will permit any such articles to be entered during any 12-month period beginning July 1 in excess of the respective quantities specified for such articles in Lists I and II and, in the case of articles included in List II, during the first 4 months and the first 8 months of any such 12-month period in excess of one-third and two-thirds, respectively, of such specified quantities.
2. No peanuts included in List II shall be entered during any 12-month period beginning July 1 in excess of the quantity specified for such peanuts in the said List II.
3. Articles included in List III shall, when entered, be subject to the fees respectively specified therefor in the said List III.
I hereby determine that the periods specified in the said report of the Tariff Commission for the purpose of the first proviso to section 22 (b) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended, are representative periods for such purpose.
The provisions of this proclamation shall not apply to articles imported by or for the account of any department or agency of the Government of the United States.
As used in this proclamation, the word "entered" means "entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption".
This proclamation shall be without force and effect if section 104 of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended, is extended beyond June 30, 1953.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this eighth day of June in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-seventh.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
By the President:
JOHN FOSTER DULLES,
Secretary of State