By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
1. 
Whereas
, pursuant to the authority vested in the President by the Constitution and the statutes, including section 350 (a) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, on October 30, 1947 he entered into a trade agreement with certain foreign countries, which trade agreement consists of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and the related Protocol of Provisional Application thereof, together with the Final Act Adopted at the Conclusion of the Second Session of the Preparatory Committee of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Employment (61 Stat. (Parts 5 and 6) A7, All, and A2050);
2. 
Whereas
 item 763 in Part I of Geneva-Schedule XX annexed to the said General Agreement reads in part as follows:
3. 
Whereas
, in accordance with Article II of the said General Agreement and by virtue of Proclamation No. 2761A of December 16, 1947 (61 Stat. 1103), the United States customs treatment of alsike clover seed described in the said item 763 is the application of duty at the rate of 2 cents per pound, which treatment reflects the concession granted in the said General Agreement with respect to such product;
4. 
Whereas
 the United States Tariff Commission has submitted to me its report of an investigation, including a hearing, under section 7 of the Trade Agreements Extension Act of 1951, as amended, as a result of which the Commission has found that alsike clover seed described in the said item 763 is, as a result in part of the customs treatment reflecting the concession granted with respect to such product in the said General Agreement, being imported into the United States in such increased quantities as to cause serious injury to the domestic industry producing like or directly competitive products;
5. 
Whereas
 section 350 (a) (2) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (48 Stat. 943), authorizes the President to proclaim such modification of existing duties and such additional import restrictions as are required or appropriate to carry out any foreign trade agreement that the President has entered into under the said section 350 (a); and
6. 
Whereas
 I find that the modification of the concession granted in the said General Agreement with respect to alsike clover seed described in the said item 763 to permit the application to such seed of the duties hereinafter proclaimed is necessary to remedy the serious injury to the domestic industry producing the like or directly competitive product, and that upon such modification of the concession it will be appropriate to carry out the said General Agreement to apply to alsike clover seed the rates of duty hereinafter proclaimed:
Now, Therefore, I, Dwight D. Eisenhower
, President of the United States of America, acting under the authority vested in me by section 350 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, and by section 7 (c) of the Trade Agreements Extension Act of 1951, as amended, and in accordance with the provisions of the said General Agreement, do proclaim—
(a) That the provision in the said item 763 with respect to alsike clover seed, referred to in the second recital of this proclamation, shall be modified, during the 12-month period beginning on July 1, 1954, to read as follows:
(b) That, during the 12-month period beginning on July 1, 1954, alsike clover seed described in the said item 763 as modified by paragraph (a) above, shall be subject to the rates of duty specified in such modified item 763.
Proclamation No. 2761A of December 16, 1947, as amended and supplemented, is modified accordingly during the 12-month period beginning on July 1, 1954.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this 30th day of June in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America, the one hundred and seventy-eighth.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
By the President:
JOHN FOSTER DULLES,
Secretary of State