By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, including the Canal Zone Code, approved June 19, 1934, as amended, and as President of the United States, Executive Order No. 9746 of July 1, 1946 (11 F. R. 7329), relating to the Panama Canal and the Canal Zone, is hereby amended as follows:
1. Paragraphs 1 to 6, inclusive, thereof are renumbered as paragraphs 3 to 8, inclusive, and two new paragraphs, numbered 1 and 2, and reading as follows, are inserted immediately after the preamble of the said order:
"1. The Secretary of the Army is hereby designated, pursuant to Canal Zone Code, title 2, section 5, as amended by section 1 of the act of September 26, 1950, 64 Stat. 1038, as the officer of the United States to supervise the administration of the Canal Zone Government by the Governor of the Canal Zone.
"2. The organization of the Canal Zone Government shall include a Lieutenant Governor of the Canal Zone, who (1) shall be appointed by the Governor of the Canal Zone subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Army, (2) shall perform such duties as the Governor shall determine, and (3), unless the Secretary of the Army shall designate another person for such purpose, shall act as Governor during the absence or disability of the Governor or in the event of a vacancy in the office of Governor."
2. Paragraphs 1 (h) and 3 of the said order, hereinabove renumbered as paragraphs 3 (h) and 5, are amended to read, respectively, as follows:
"(h) Canal Zone Code, title 2, section 81, as amended by section 3 of the act of July 9, 1937, ch. 470, 50 Stat. 487, relative to the appointment, removal, fixing of compensation, and prescribing of the conditions of employment of persons, other than the Governor of the Canal Zone, necessary for the civil government, including health, sanitation, and protection of the Canal Zone: Provided, that this delegation of authority shall be subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this order, as amended."
"5. To the extent that the supervisory authority vested in the Secretary of the Army by virtue of his designation in section 1 of this order, as amended, relates to the establishment, alteration, and discontinuance of military and naval reservations and air-force bases in the Canal Zone, he shall exercise the said authority after consultation with (a) the Secretary of the Navy in the case of naval reservations and in the case of other reservations and bases concerning which the Department of the Navy may express an interest, (b) the Secretary of the Air Force in the case of air-force bases and in the case of other bases and reservations concerning which the Department of the Air Force may express an interest, and (c) both the Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of the Air Force when they both have an interest."
3. The words "Secretary of the Army" and "Governor of the Canal Zone" are substituted for the words "Secretary of War" and "Governor of the Panama Canal", respectively, wherever they occur in the said order or in the title thereof.
This order supersedes Executive Order No. 10101 of January 31, 1950, entitled "Amendment of Executive Order No. 9746 of July 1, 1946, Relating to the Panama Canal".
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
February 7, 1955.