By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
"WE the People of the United States, in order to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common Defense, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this CONSTITUTION for the United States of America."
On September 17, 1787, the delegates to the Federal Convention in Philadelphia met for the last time and approved these familiar words now enshrined not only in our Nation's basic Instrument of Government but also in the hearts of our citizenry. Led by the President of the Convention, George Washington, the great majority of the delegates signed the newly drafted Constitution, and on the following day their Secretary set off for New York by stage coach to deliver the engrossed document to the United States in Congress there assembled. Within a week the proposed Constitution had been printed and circulated in both Pennsylvania and New York, and the great principles by which our country still is governed had been dispatched or carried home by delegates from other States as well. On September 28, 1787, the Congress resolved to transmit the draft text officially to the States of the Confederation for action.
It is fitting that we, whose entire lives have been protected by the fruits of the Convention's deliberations, should pause in our several occupations to study the course of events by which our Constitution came into being, the great debate which ensued before our Federal Government became established, and the internal stresses and the assaults from without which we as a Nation have met successfully, with God's help, within the framework established by our forbears one hundred and sixty-eight years ago.
Now, Therefore, I, Dwight D. Eisenhower
, President of the United States of America, acting in accord with Senate Concurrent Resolution 40, agreed to on July 26, 1955, do hereby designate as Constitution Week the period beginning September 17, 1955, and ending September 23, 1955; and I invite the people of the United States to observe that week with appropriate ceremonies in their schools and churches, and in other suitable places. Let us give thanks for the wisdom of those statesmen of 1787 who labored "to decide the fate of republican government" and of their successors throughout our country's history who contributed to making our Constitution a living thing, a great taproot to feed and support the growth of our republic.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this 19th day of August in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eightieth.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
By the President:
JOHN FOSTER DULLES,
Secretary of State