By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
1. 
Whereas
, under the authority vested in him by the Constitution and the statutes, including section 350 (a) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, the President on October 30, 1947, entered into a trade agreement with certain foreign countries, which trade agreement consists of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and the related Protocol of Provisional Application thereof, together with the Final Act Adopted at the Conclusion of the Second Session of the Preparatory Committee of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Employment (61 Stat. (Parts 5 and 6) A7, All, and A2050), and, by Proclamation No. 2761A of December 16, 1947 (61 Stat. 1103), proclaimed such modifications of existing duties and other import restrictions of the United States and such continuance of existing customs or excise treatment of articles imported into the United States as were then found to be required or appropriate to carry out the said trade agreement on and after January 1, 1948;
2. 
Whereas
 item 371 (First) in Part I of Geneva-Schedule XX annexed to the said General Agreement (61 Stat. (Part 5) Al213) reads as follows:
3. 
Whereas
, in accordance with Article II of the said General Agreement and by virtue of the said Proclamation No. 2761A, the United States customs treatment of the products described in the said item 371 (First) is the application to such products of the rates of duty specified in the column designated "Rate of Duty" in the said item 371 (First), which treatment reflects the concessions granted in the said General Agreement with respect to such products;
4. 
Whereas
 the United States Tariff Commission has submitted to me its report of an investigation, including a hearing, under section 7 of the Trade Agreements Extension Act of 1951, as amended (65 Stat. 72; 67 Stat. 472), on the basis of which it has found that the products described in the said item 371 (First) are, as a result in part of the duties reflecting the concessions granted thereon in the said General Agreement, being imported into the United States in such increased quantities as to cause serious injury to the domestic industry producing like or directly competitive products;
5. 
Whereas
 section 350 (a) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, authorizes the President to proclaim such modifications of existing duties as are required or appropriate to carry out any foreign trade agreement that the President has entered into under the said section 350 (a); and
6. 
Whereas
 I find that the modification of the concessions granted in the said General Agreement with respect to the products described in the said item 371 (First) to permit the application to such products of the duties hereinafter proclaimed is necessary to remedy the serious injury to the domestic industry producing like or directly competitive products, and that upon such modification of the concessions it will be appropriate to carry out the said General Agreement, including Article XIX thereof, to apply to the said products the rates of duty hereinafter proclaimed:
Now, Therefore, I, Dwight D. Eisenhower
, President of the United States of America, acting under the authority vested in me by section 350 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, and by section 7 (c) of the Trade Agreements Extension Act of 1951, and in accordance with the provisions of Article XIX of the said General Agreement, do proclaim—
(a) That the said item 371 (First) shall be modified, effective after the close of business August 18, 1955, to read as follows:
(b) That the products described in the said item 371 (First), as modified by paragraph (a) above, entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption after the close of business August 18, 1955, and until the President otherwise proclaims, shall be subject to the rates of duty specified in such modified item 371 (First).
Proclamation No. 2761A of December 16, 1947, as amended, is modified accordingly.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this eighteenth day of August in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eightieth.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
By the President:
JOHN FOSTER DULLES,
Secretary of State