By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 207 of the Independent Offices Appropriation Act, 1949, as amended by section 104 of the Supplemental Independent Offices Appropriation Act, 1949 (62 Stat. 1205), and by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. Subsection (a) of section 106 of Executive Order No. 10000 of September 16, 1948, prescribing regulations governing additional compensation and credit granted certain employees of the Federal Government serving outside the United States, is amended to read as follows:
"(a) The following regulations shall govern the payment of foreign post differentials under this Part:
(1) Payments shall begin as of the date of arrival at the post on assignment or transfer and shall end as of the date of departure from the post for separation or transfer, except that in case of local recruitment such payments shall begin and end as of the beginning and the end of employment, respectively.
(2) Payments for periods of leave and of detail shall begin and end as determined in regulations prescribed under section 102 (c) hereof.
(3) Payments to persons serving on a part-time basis shall be prorated to cover only those periods of time for which such persons receive basic compensation.
(4) Payment shall not be made for any time for which an employee does not receive basic compensation."
2. Subsection (a) of section 208 of the said Executive Order No. 10000 is amended to read as follows:
"(a) The following regulations shall govern the payment of Territorial post differentials and Territorial cost-of-living allowances under this Part:
(1) Payments shall begin as of the date of arrival at the post on assignment or transfer and shall end as of the date of departure from the post for separation or transfer, except that in case of local recruitment such payments shall begin and end as of the beginning and end of employment, respectively.
(2) Payments for periods of leave and of detail shall begin and end as determined in regulations prescribed under section 202 (c) hereof.
(3) Payments to persons serving on a part-time basis shall be prorated to cover only those periods of time for which such persons receive basic compensation.
(4) Payment shall not be made for any time for which an employee does not receive basic compensation."
3. Regulations prescribed by the Secretary of State pursuant to section 106 (a) (2) and by the Civil Service Commission pursuant to section 208 (a) (2) shall, so far as practicable, be of uniform application.
This order shall be effective as to each officer or employee affected thereby upon the beginning of his first pay period commencing after November 1, 1955.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
September 16, 1955.