By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
, pursuant to section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 624), I issued Proclamation No. 30731 (19 F. R. 6623) on October 11, 1954, imposing a fee of 10 cents per pound, but not more than 50 per centum ad valorem, on shelled filberts, whether or not blanched, entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption during the 12-month period beginning October 1, 1954, in excess of an aggregate quantity of 6,000,000 pounds, such fee being in addition to any other duties imposed on the importation of such filberts; and
Whereas
, pursuant to section 22 (d) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended, the United States Tariff Commission has made a supplemental investigation to determine whether changed circumstances require the modification of the said Proclamation No. 3073 in order to carry out the purposes of the said section 22 and has submitted to me a report of its findings and recommendations with respect thereto; and
Whereas
, on the basis of the said supplemental investigation and report of the Tariff Commission, I find that changed circumstances require the modification of the said Proclamation No. 3073 in the manner hereinafter proclaimed, in order to carry out the purposes of the said section 22; and
Whereas
 I find and declare that the entry, or withdrawal from warehouse, for consumption during the remainder of the 12-month period beginning October 1, 1954, of an additional quantity of shelled filberts, whether or not blanched, not in excess of 1,500,000 pounds, free of the fee imposed by the said proclamation, will not render or tend to render ineffective, or materially interfere with, the program of the Department of Agriculture with respect to filberts, or reduce substantially the amount of products processed in the United States from filberts with respect to which such program is being undertaken:
Now, Therefore, I, Dwight D. Eisenhower
, President of the United States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by the said section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended, do hereby proclaim that the said Proclamation No. 3073 is hereby modified so as to permit the entry, or withdrawal from warehouse, for consumption during the remainder of the 12-month period beginning October 1, 1954, of an additional quantity of 1,500,000 pounds of shelled filberts, whether or not blanched, free of the fee imposed by the said Proclamation No. 3073.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this 15th day of July in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eightieth.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
By the President:
HERBERT HOOVER, Jr.,
Acting Secretary of State