WHEREAS recent studies, both private and public, have revealed disturbing deficiencies in the fitness of American youth; and
WHEREAS, since the youth of our Nation is one of the greatest of our assets, it is imperative that the fitness of our youth be improved and promoted to the greatest possible extent; and
WHEREAS such fitness is the responsibility of the government at all levels, as well as the responsibility of the family, the school, the community, and other groups and organizations; and
WHEREAS it is necessary that the activities of the Federal Government in this area be coordinated and administered so as to assure their maximum effectiveness and to provide guidance and stimulation; and
WHEREAS a comprehensive study and a reevaluation of all governmental and non-governmental programs and activities relating to the fitness of youth are necessary in the interest of achieving and maintaining higher standards of youth fitness:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
PART I. PRESIDENT'S COUNCIL ON YOUTH FITNESS
SECTION 1. There is hereby established the President's Council on Youth Fitness (hereinafter referred to as the Council), which shall be composed of the Vice President of the United States, who shall be the Chairman of the Council, the Attorney General, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Labor, and the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare.
SEC. 2. The Council shall promote the efficacy of existing programs and the launching of additional programs which will enhance the fitness of American youth. The Council shall seek to coordinate, stimulate, and improve the functions of Federal agencies with respect to the fitness of youth.
SEC. 3. Each executive department the head of which is referred to in section 1 of this order shall, as may be necessary for the purpose of effectuating the provisions of this order, furnish assistance to the Council in accordance with section 214 of the act of May 3, 1945, 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691) . Such assistance may include detailing employees to the Council, one of whom may serve as its executive officer, to perform such functions consistent with the purposes of this order as the Council may assign to them.
PART II. PRESIDENT'S CITIZENS ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON THE FITNESS OF AMERICAN YOUTH
SEC. 4. There is hereby established the President's Citizens Advisory Committee on the Fitness of American Youth (hereinafter referred to as the Advisory Committee) . The Advisory Committee shall be composed of such members as the President may designate, and each member shall serve at the pleasure of the President. A member of the Advisory Committee shall be designated by the President as the chairman of the Advisory Committee.
SEC. 5. The Advisory Committee shall consider and evaluate existing and prospective governmental and private measures conducive to the achievement of a happier, healthier, and more completely fit American youth.
PART III. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 6. The Council shall be the President's official link with the Advisory Committee. The Council shall meet with the Advisory Committee at least once a year for the purpose of determining the progress made with respect to the problems relating to the fitness of American youth, and, taking into account the results of such meetings and other factors, shall prepare and present reports on this subject to the President.
SEC. 7. Nothing in this order shall be construed to abrogate, modify, or restrict any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any executive department or other agency of the Government or any officer thereof.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
July 16, 1956.