By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 20 of the Rubber Producing Facilities Disposal Act of 1953, 67 Stat. 414, as amended or modified (50 U.S.C. App. 1941r), and by section 6 (d) of the act of March 21, 1956, 70 Stat. 53, and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Subject to the provisions of section 2 of this order, the Federal Facilities Corporation (hereinafter referred to as the Corporation) is hereby designated as the agency to administer the contracts of sale or lease of the Government-owned rubber producing facilities made pursuant to the Rubber Producing Facilities Disposal Act of 1953, as amended, and to administer other matters involving the Rubber Producing Facilities Disposal Commission, including all powers and authority conferred upon the said Commission by sections 4, 5, and 6 of the said act of March 21, 1958, and also including the winding up of the affairs of the Commission. The said contracts are hereby transferred to the Corporation.
SEC. 2. The administration of the national-security clause contained in such contracts of sale, including any contract of sale made under the act of March 31, 1955, 69 Stat. 15, or under the said act of March 21, 1956, and the administration of the national-security clause (including the recapture clause) contained in any lease of the unsold facilities made under any of the aforesaid acts shall be carried out in accordance with the needs and requirements of the national defense as determined by the Secretary of Defense.
SEC. 3. The records, property, liabilities, employees, and unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, and other funds, available or to be made available, of the Rubber Producing Facilities Disposal Commission are hereby transferred to the Corporation, for use or employment by the Corporation in connection with the administration or performance of its functions and duties under section 1 of this order, or for other disposition as determined, consonant with law, by the Corporation.
SEC. 4. All matters placed under the administration or jurisdiction of the Corporation by sections 1 and 3 of this order shall be subject to direction and control by the Secretary of the Treasury.
SEC. 5. This order shall become effective on September 24, 1956.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
September 20, 1956.