By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
One hundred and sixty-nine years ago today, on Monday, September 17, 1787, the Constitution of the United States was signed by the Founding Fathers, and a crucial nine-month campaign for its adoption was begun. As we celebrate that momentous event, it is fitting that we take notice of Alexander Hamilton, who, at the age of thirty, was recognized as one of the principal architects and leaders of the movement for "a more perfect Union" of the States.
Five years earlier Hamilton's imagination had shown him the noble and magnificent prospect of a great Federal Republic, closely linked in the pursuit of a common interest, tranquil and prosperous at home, and respected abroad. His vision, together with that of other patriots, brought forth the United States of America under the Constitution.
Alexander Hamilton served his country well throughout his life—during the Revolutionary War as aide-de-camp and military secretary to General Washington, as commander of the American columns in the final assault on Yorktown, and, later, as Major General and Senior Officer of the Army; in the Continental Congress, in the Assembly of the State of New York, in the Annapolis Convention of 1786, which led to the momentous meeting in Philadelphia the following year, and in that meeting in 1787 during which the Constitution was framed. During the succeeding months he was untiring in his efforts to secure acceptance of the Constitution by the States, and his subsequent service as first Secretary of the Treasury under the new Government proved him to be one of the boldest and most far-sighted of the founders of our Nation.
The opportunity has now come to our generation to demonstrate our gratitude and our obligation to Alexander Hamilton by a fitting celebration of the two hundredth anniversary of his birth—a happy opportunity for all of us to think afresh of his sincere efforts and inspiring leadership in the work of the men who laid the foundations, raised the structure, and built the sustaining traditions of the Government of the United States.
Now, Therefore, I, Dwight D. Eisenhower
, President of the United States of America, in accord with the purposes of the Congress, do hereby urge the Governors of the several States, and do call upon all officials and agencies of Federal Government, and upon all citizens, to observe the year commencing January 11, 1957, as the Alexander Hamilton Bicentennial, and to do honor to his memory during the period with appropriate activities and ceremonies commemorative of his inspiring role in our national life.
And I hereby direct that on January 11, 1957, the anniversary of Alexander Hamilton's birth, the flag of the United States be appropriately displayed on all Government buildings in the United States and all offices of this Government abroad.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this 17th day of September in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-first.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
By the President:
JOHN FOSTER DULLES,
Secretary of State