By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
, pursuant to section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 624), the Secretary of Agriculture advised me there was reason to believe that certain articles containing butterfat, the butterfat content of which is commercially extractable, or which are capable of being used for any edible purpose for which products containing butterfat are used, are being or are practically certain to be imported into the United States under such conditions and in such quantities as to render or tend to render ineffective, or materially interfere with, the price-support program undertaken by the Department of Agriculture with respect to milk and butterfat, or to reduce substantially the amount of products processed in the United States from domestic milk and butterfat with respect to which such program of the Department of Agriculture is being undertaken;
Whereas
, on May 21, 1957, under the authority of the said section 22, I caused the United States Tariff Commission to make an investigation with respect to this matter;
Whereas
, in accordance with the said section 22, as implemented by Executive Order No. 1233 of November 23, 1935, the said Tariff Commission has made such investigation and has reported to me its findings and recommendations made in connection therewith;
Whereas
, on the basis of the said investigation and report of the said Tariff Commission, I find that the articles with respect to which import restrictions are hereinafter proclaimed are being or are practically certain to be imported into the United States under such conditions and in such quantities as to materially interfere with the said price-support program with respect to milk and butterfat, or to reduce substantially the amount of products processed in the United States from domestic milk and butterfat with respect to which said price-support program is being undertaken;
Whereas
 I find and declare that the import restrictions hereinafter proclaimed are shown by such investigation of the said Tariff Commission to be necessary in order that the entry, or withdrawal from warehouse, for consumption of the said articles will not materially interfere with the said price-support program or reduce substantially the amount of products processed in the United States from domestic milk and butterfat with respect to which the said price-support program is being undertaken; and
Whereas
 I find that there is no representative period, within the meaning of the first proviso to subsection (b) of the said section 22, for imports of the said articles:
Now, Therefore, I, Dwight D. Eisenhower
, President of the United States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by the said section 22, do hereby proclaim that, effective at the close of business August 7, 1957 and thereafter, articles containing 45 percent or more of butterfat or of butterfat and other fat or oil, the butterfat content of which is commercially extractable, or which are capable or being used for any edible purpose for which products containing butterfat are used, shall not be permitted to be entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption: Provided, that this limitation shall not apply to the following articles:
1. Articles the importation of which is restricted under quotas established pursuant to section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended.
2. Cheeses the importation of which is not restricted by quotas established pursuant to the said section 22.
3. Evaporated milk and condensed milk.
4. Products imported packaged for distribution in the retail trade and ready for use by the purchaser at retail for an edible purpose or in the preparation of an edible article.
5. Articles containing butterfat and other fat or oil, if the importer establishes to the satisfaction of the collector of customs that the butterfat content thereof is less than 45 percent.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this seventh day of August in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-seven and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-second.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
By the President:
JOHN FOSTER DULLES,
Secretary of State