By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
1. 
Whereas
, pursuant to authority vested in the President by the Constitution and the statutes, including section 350 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1351), on October 30, 1947 he entered into a trade agreement with certain foreign countries, which trade agreement consists of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and the related Protocol of Provisional Application thereof, together with the Final Act Adopted at the Conclusion of the Second Session of the Preparatory Committee of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Employment (61 Stat. (Parts 5 and 6) A7, All, and A2051);
2. 
Whereas
 item 350 in Part I of Schedule XX (Geneva-1947) annexed to and made a part of the said General Agreement reads in pertinent part as follows:
3. 
Whereas
, in accordance with Article II of the said General Agreement and by virtue of Proclamation No. 2761A of December 16, 1947 (61 Stat. 1103), the United States rate of duty applicable to safety pins described in the said item 350 is 221/2 per centum ad valorem, as specified in the said item 350, which duty reflects the tariff concession granted in the said General Agreement with respect to such product;
4. 
Whereas
 the United States Tariff Commission has submitted to me a report of its investigation No. 53 under section 7 of the Trade Agreements Extension Act of 1951, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1364), on the basis of which investigation, including a hearing held in connection therewith, the Commission has found that as a result in part of the duty reflecting the concession granted in the said General Agreement safety pins described in the said item 350 are being imported into the United States in such increased quantities, both actual and relative, as to cause serious injury to the domestic industry producing like or directly competitive products;
5. 
Whereas
 the said Tariff Commission has recommended that the concession granted in the said General Agreement with respect to the safety pins be modified to permit the application to such safety pins of the increased rate of duty hereinafter proclaimed, which duty the said Tariff Commission found and reported to be necessary to remedy the serious injury to the domestic industry producing like or directly competitive products;
6. 
Whereas
 section 350 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, authorizes the President to proclaim such modifications of existing duties or such additional import restrictions as are required or appropriate to carry out any foreign trade agreement that the President has entered into under the said section 350; and
7. 
Whereas
, upon modification of the concession granted in the said General Agreement with respect to safety pins as recommended by the Tariff Commission, it will be appropriate, to carry out the said General Agreement, to apply to the said pins the rate of duty hereinafter proclaimed:
Now, Therefore, I, Dwight D. Eisenhower
, President of the United States of America, acting under the authority vested in me by section 350 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, and by section 7 (c) of the Trade Agreements Extension Act of 1951, as amended, and in accordance with the provisions of the said General Agreement, do proclaim that, effective after the close of business on December 30, 1957, and until the President otherwise proclaims, the said item 350 in Part I of Schedule XX (Geneva-1947) shall be modified by substituting the rate "35% ad val." for the rate "22 1/2% ad val."
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this 29th day of November in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-second.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
By the President:
JOHN FOSTER DULLES,
Secretary of State