By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
At the autumnal season of the year our hearts move us to follow the wise and reverent custom, inaugurated by our Pilgrim Fathers more than three centuries ago, of setting aside one special day for expressions of gratitude to a merciful Providence for the blessings bestowed upon us.
It behooves us to dwell upon the deep religious convictions of those who formed our Nation out of a wilderness, and to recall that our leaders throughout the succeeding generations have relied upon Almighty God for vision and strength of purpose.
As a Nation we have prospered; we are enjoying the fruit of our land and the product of our toil; we are making progress in our efforts to translate our national ideals into living realities; and we are at peace with the world, working toward that day when the benefits of freedom and justice shall be secured for all mankind.
For such blessings let us be devoutly thankful, and at the same time let us be sensitive and responsive to the obligations which such great mercies entail.
Now, Therefore, I, Dwight D. Eisenhower
, President of the United States of America, having in mind the joint resolution of Congress approved December 26, 1941, which designates the fourth Thursday in November of each year as Thanksgiving Day, do hereby call upon our people to observe Thursday, November 28, 1957, as a day of national thanksgiving. On that day let all of us, in accordance with our hallowed custom, foregather in our respective places of worship or in our homes and offer up prayers of thanks for our manifold blessings. Let the happiness which stems from family reunions on Thanksgiving Day be tempered with compassion and inspired by an active concern for those less fortunate in our own country and in other lands; and let us ask God's continuing help and guidance in our conduct, both as individuals and as a Nation.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this eighth day of November in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-second.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
By the President:
JOHN FOSTER DULLES,
Secretary of State