By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. (a) Subject to the provisions of this order, the authority vested in the President by subsection 305 (a), and by subsections 606 (a), (c), and (d), of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (47 U.S.C. 305 (a); 606 (a), (c), and (d)), is delegated to the Director of the Office of Defense Mobilization (hereinafter referred to as the Director).
(b) Without limiting the time of effect of the provisions of section 2 hereof, It is directed that the authority delegated by section 1 (a) of this order may be performed hereunder (1) in respect of the said subsections 305 (a) and 606 (a) only during the continuance of a war in which the United States is engaged, and (2) in respect of the said subsections 606 (c) and (d) only upon proclamation by the President that there exists a state of war involving the United States.
(c) The Director may issue such rules and regulations as he may deem necessary in connection with the authority delegated to him by subsection 1 (a) of this order.
(d) Nothing in this order shall be construed as authorizing the exercise of any authority with respect to the content of any station program or of communications transmitted by any communication facility.
SEC. 2. (a) Subject to the provisions of subsection 2 (b) of this order, the Director may, at any time after the issuance of this order, redelegate any authority delegated to him by section 1 of this order. Except as otherwise authorized by the said subsection 606 (a) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, any such redelegation shall be made only to an officer or officers of the executive branch of the Government required to be appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
(b) The authority vested in the President by the said subsections 606 (c) and (d) and delegated to the Director by section 1 of this order to take over or use facilities or stations or to remove apparatus or equipment from facilities or stations shall be exercised only by the Director or with his express approval in each case.
SEC. 3. This order shall not operate to terminate or modify the effect of any provision of any other Executive order, or of any rule, regulation, or other action, relating to any of the authority delegated by this order; but, subject to the respective limitations of time set forth in section 1 (b) of this order, authority to amend or revoke any such provision shall be deemed to be included within the authority delegated by section 1 of this order.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
April 17, 1957.