By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 it appears that the public interest would be promoted by adding to the Capitol Reef National Monument, Utah, certain adjoining lands needed for the protection of the features of geological and scientific interest included within the boundaries of the monument and for the proper administration of the area:
Now, Therefore, I, Dwight D. Eisenhower
, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 2 of the act of June 8, 1906, 34 Stat. 225 (16 U. S. C. 431), do proclaim that, subject to valid existing rights, (1) the lands now owned by the United States within the exterior boundaries of the following-described tracts of lands are hereby added to and made a part of the Capitol Reef National Monument, and (2) the State-owned and privately-owned lands within those boundaries shall become parts of the monument upon acquisition of title thereto by the United States:
SALT LAKE MERIDIAN
T. 29 S., R. 5 E.,
Sections 1 and 2, those portions not previously included in the Monument. T.29S.,R.8E.,
Sections 5, 8, 9, and 16, those portions not previously included in the Monument;
Sections 7, 8, and 17, those portions lying north of Sulphur Creek;
Section 28, SW'/4 and SliNW1/4.
T. 30 S., R. 7 E., Section 20, NWY.SE% (except SV2S% NW% SE%) and NEI/4SE% (except SY2SW% NE%SE3/4).
containing 3,040 acres, more or less.
Warning is hereby expressly given to all unauthorized persons not to appropriate, injure, destroy, or remove any feature of this monument and not to locate or settle upon any of the lands thereof.
Nothing herein shall prevent the movement of livestock across the lands included in this monument under such regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior and upon driveways to be specifically designated by said Secretary.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this second day of July in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-second.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
By the President:
JOHN FOSTER DULLES,
Secretary of State