By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 the Tumacacori National Monument in Santa Cruz County, Arizona, established by Proclamation No. 821 of September 15, 1908, contains the ruins of the Tumacacori Mission, built largely of burned brick and cement mortar and one of the oldest Spanish missions in the Southwest; and
Whereas
 the Southwestern Monuments Association has offered to donate to the United States, for inclusion in such monument, a tract of land adjacent thereto containing the ruins of a lime kiln which was a part of the original mission establishment and which is likewise of historic interest; and
Whereas
 it appears that it would be in the public interest to include such tract of land, hereinafter described by metes and bounds, and the ruins thereon in the Tumacacori National Monument:
Now, Therefore, I, Dwight D. Eisenhower
, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 2 of the act of June 8, 1906, 34 Stat. 225 (16 U. S. C. 431), do proclaim that, subject to valid existing rights, the following-described tract of land shall, upon acquisition of title thereto by the United States, be added to, and become a part of the Tumacacori National Monument:
Being a part of the southeast quarter, section 30, Township 21 South, Range 13 East, Gila and Salt River Meridian, and beginning at a point on the north boundary line of Tumacacori National Monument as established by Proclamation No. 821 of September 15, 1908, from which the northwest corner of the said monument bears west 125 feet; thence, east, 70 feet, along the said boundary line; north, 92 feet; west, 70 feet; and south, 92 feet, to the point of beginning; containing 0.15 acres, more or less.
Warning is hereby expressly given to all unauthorized persons not to appropriate, injure, destroy, or remove any feature of this monument, and not to locate or settle upon any of the lands thereof.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this 28th day of March in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-second.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
By the President:
JOHN FOSTER DULLES,
Secretary of State