By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution, statutes, and treaties of the United States, including the Charter of the United Nations, and as President of the United States, it is ordered that paragraphs 2, 3, and 4 of Part I of Executive Order No. 10422 of January 9, 1953, as amended by Executive Order No. 10459 of June 2, 1953, be, and they are hereby, amended to read as follows:
"2. The Secretary of State shall forward the information received from the Secretary General of the United Nations to the United States Civil Service Commission, and the Commission shall conduct an investigation.
"3. The investigation conducted by the Civil Service Commission shall be a full background investigation conforming to the investigative standards of the Civil Service Commission, and shall include reference to the following:
(a) Federal Bureau of Investigation files.
(b) Civil Service Commission files.
(c) Military and naval intelligence files as appropriate.
(d) The files of any other appropriate Government investigative or intelligence agency.
(e) The files of appropriate committees of the Congress.
(f) Local law-enforcement files at the place of residence and employment of the person, including municipal, county, and State law-enforcement files.
(g) Schools and colleges attended by the person.
(h) Former employers of the person.
(i) References given by the person.
(j) Any other appropriate source.
However, in the case of short-term employees whose employment does not exceed ninety days, such investigation need not include reference to subparagraphs (f) through (j) of this paragraph.
"4. Whenever information disclosed with respect to any person being investigated is derogatory, within the standard set forth in Part II of this order, the United States Civil Service Commission shall forward such information to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Bureau shall conduct a full field investigation of such person."
This order shall become effective on July 1, 1958.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
April 23, 1958.