WHEREAS science and technology are essential resources for the security and welfare of the United States; and
WHEREAS Federal programs in science and technology will advance our security, health, and economic welfare and the quality of education in the United States; and
WHEREAS closer cooperation among Federal agencies will facilitate the resolution of common problems in science and technology, promote a greater measure of coordination, and otherwise improve the planning and management of Federal programs in these fields:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Establishment of Council.
(a) There is hereby established the Federal Council for Science and Technology (hereinafter referred to as the Council).
(b) The Council shall be composed of the following-designated members: (1) the Special Assistant to the President for Science and Technology, (2) one representative of each of the following-named departments, who shall be designated by the Secretary of the Department concerned and shall be an official of the Department of policy rank: the Departments of Defense, the Interior, Agriculture, Commerce, and Health, Education, and Welfare, (3) the Director of the National Science Foundation, (4) the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and (5) a representative of the Atomic Energy Commission, who shall be the Chairman of the Commission or another member of the Commission designated by the Chairman. A representative of the Secretary of State designated by the Secretary and a representative of the Director of the Bureau of the Budget designated by the Director may attend meetings of the Council as observers.
(c) The Chairman of the Council (hereinafter referred to as the Chairman) shall be designated by the President from time to time from among the members thereof. The Chairman may make provision for another member of the Council, with the consent of such member, to act temporarily as Chairman.
(d) The Chairman (1) may request the head of any Federal agency not named in section 2(b) of this order to designate a representative to participate in meetings or parts of meetings of the Council concerned with matters of substantial interest to the agency, and (2) may invite other persons to attend meetings of the Council.
(e) The Council shall meet at the call of the Chairman.
SEC. 2. Functions of Council. (a) The Council shall consider problems and developments in the fields of science and technology and related activities affecting more than one Federal agency or concerning the overall advancement of the Nation's science and technology, and shall recommend policies and other measures (1) to provide more effective planning and administration of Federal scientific and technological programs, (2) to identify research needs including areas of research requiring additional emphasis, (3) to achieve more effective utilization of the scientific and technological resources and facilities of Federal agencies, including the elimination of unnecessary duplication, and (4) to further international cooperation in science and technology. In developing such policies and measures the Council, after consulting, when considered appropriate by the Chairman, the National Academy of Sciences, the President's Science Advisory Committee, and other organizations, shall consider (i) the effects of Federal research and development policies and programs on non-Federal programs and institutions, (ii) long-range program plans designed to meet the scientific and technological needs of the Federal Government, including manpower and capital requirements, and (iii) the effects of non-Federal programs in science and technology upon Federal research and development policies and programs.
(b) The Council shall consider and recommend measures for the effective implementation of Federal policies concerning the administration and conduct of Federal programs in science and technology.
(c) The Council shall perform such other related duties as shall be assigned, consonant with law, by the President or by the Chairman.
(d) The Chairman shall, from time to time, submit to the President such of the Council's recommendations or reports as require the attention of the President by reason of their importance or character.
SEC. 3. Agency assistance to Council. (a) For the purpose of effectuating this order, each Federal agency represented on the Council shall furnish necessary assistance to the Council in consonance with section 214 of the act of May 3, 1945, 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691). Such assistance may include (1) detailing employees to the Council to perform such functions, consistent with the purposes of this order, as the Chairman may assign to them, and (2) undertaking, upon request of the Chairman, such special studies for the Council as come within the functions herein assigned to the Council.
(b) Upon request of the Chairman, the heads of Federal agencies shall, so far as practicable, provide the Council with information and reports relating to the scientific and technological activities of the respective agencies.
SEC. 4. Standing committees and panels. For the purpose of conducting studies and making reports as directed by the Chairman, standing committees and panels of the Council may be established in consonance with the provisions of section 214 of the act of May 3, 1945, 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691). At least one such standing committee shall be composed of scientist-administrators representing Federal agencies, shall provide a forum for consideration of common administrative policies and procedures relating to Federal research and development activities and for formulation of recommendations thereon, and shall perform such other related functions as may be assigned to it by the Chairman of the Council.
SEC. 5. Security procedures. The Chairman shall establish procedures to insure the security of classified information used by or in the custody of the Council or employees under its jurisdiction.
SEC. 6. Other orders; construction of orders. (a) Executive Order No. 9912' of December 24, 1947, entitled "Establishing the Interdepartmental Committee on Scientific Research and Development," is hereby revoked.
(b) Executive Order No. 10521 of March 17, 1954, entitled "Administration of Scientific Research by Agencies of the Federal Government," is hereby amended:
(1) By substituting for section 1 thereof the following:
"SECTION 1. The National Science Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the Foundation) shall from time to time recommend to the President policies for the promotion and support of basic research and education in the sciences, including policies with respect to furnishing guidance toward defining the responsibilities of the Federal Government in the conduct and support of basic scientific research."
(2) By inserting before the words "scientific research programs and activities" in section 3 thereof the word "basic".
(3) (i) By adding the word "and" at the end of paragraph (a) of section 8 thereof, (ii) by deleting the semicolon and the word "and" at the end of paragraph (b) of section 8 and inserting in lieu thereof a period, and (iii) by revoking paragraph (c) of section 8.
(4) By adding at the end of the order a new section 10 reading as follows:
"SEC. 10. The National Science Foundation shall provide leadership in the effective coordination of the scientific information activities of the Federal Government with a view to improving the availability and dissemination of scientific information. Federal agencies shall cooperate with and assist the National Science Foundation in the performance of this function, to the extent permitted by law."
(c) The provisions of Executive Order No. 10521, as hereby amended, shall not limit the functions of the Council under this order. The provisions of this order shall not limit the functions of any Federal agency or officer under Executive Order No. 10521, as hereby amended.
(d) The Council shall be advisory to the President and to the heads of Federal agencies represented on the Council; accordingly, this order shall not be construed as subjecting any agency, officer, or function to control by the Council.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
March 13, 1959.