By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
To the People of the United States:
With sadness, I announce the death of General of the Army George Catlett Marshall, who died today at Walter Reed General Hospital in Washington, D.C.
As soldier and statesman, General Marshall devoted his entire life to selfless service to his Nation. To his resolution and strength of purpose, his steadfast courage and wise decision, this Nation, and indeed the Free World, are deeply indebted for survival at a time of great peril, for the safeguarding of freedom, and for the strengthening of peace.
In World War II, as Chief of Staff of the Army, his was the military responsibility to bring into being and commit to combat the largest Army force, ground and air, in our Nation's history. In a war of global dimensions, he was a principal architect of our military strategy and of the ultimate allied victory.
Called subsequently to serve as Secretary of State and as Secretary of Defense, he met new dangers and bore new responsibilities, increasing yet further our country's debt of gratitude to him. A fitting tribute to his greatness will endure in the memory of the noble plan which bears his name, by which the American people took a vital part in rebuilding and restoring to strength friendly countries torn and ravished by the war.
As a mark of respect for the memory of General Marshall, I hereby order that the flag of the United States shall be flown at half-staff upon all public buildings and grounds, at all military posts and naval stations, and on all naval vessels of the Federal Government in the District of Columbia and throughout the United States and its Territories and possessions until after his funeral shall have taken place. I also direct that the flag shall be flown at half-staff for the same length of time at all United States embassies, legations, consular offices, and other facilities abroad, including all military facilities and naval vessels and stations.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this sixteenth day of October in the year of our Lord Nineteen hundred and fifty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-fourth.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
By the President:
CHRISTIAN A. HERTER,
Secretary of State