WHEREAS section 6(e) of the act of July 7, 1958. 72 Stat. 339, as amended, provides that the administration and management of the fish and wildlife resources of Alaska shall be transferred to the State of Alaska on the first day of the first calendar year following the expiration of ninety calendar days after the Secretary of the Interior certifies to the Congress that the Alaska State Legislature has made adequate provision for the administration, management, and conservation of such resources in the broad national interest; and
WHEREAS the Secretary of the Interior made such certification to the Congress on April 27, 1959; and
WHEREAS section 45(a) of the Alaska Omnibus Act (73 Stat. 152) provides that if the President determines that any function performed by the Federal Government in Alaska has been terminated by the Federal Government and that performance of such function or substantially the same function has been or will be assumed by the State of Alaska, the President may, until July 1, 1964, in his discretion, transfer and convey to the State of Alaska, without reimbursement, any property or interest in property, real or personal, situated in Alaska which is owned or held by the United States in connection with such function; and
WHEREAS it appears that it would be in the public interest to delegate to the Secretary of the Interior, to the extent hereinafter indicated, the authority vested in the President by section 45(a) of the Alaska Omnibus Act;
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 45(a) of the Alaska Omnibus Act (73 Stat. 152) and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
Section 1. It is hereby determined that the functions performed by the United States in Alaska pursuant to the Alaska game law of July 1, 1943, 57 Stat. 301, the act of June 26, 1906, 34 Stat. 478, the act of June 6, 1924, 43 Stat. 465, and the acts amending or supplementing such acts, will terminate on December 31, 1959, and that the same functions or substantially the same functions will be assumed by the State of Alaska.
Sec. 2. There is hereby delegated to the Secretary of the Interior, effective January 1, 1960, the authority vested in the President by section 45(a) of the Alaska Omnibus Act to transfer and convey to the State of Alaska, without reimbursement, any property or interest in property, real or personal, situated In Alaska which is owned or held by the United States in connection with the functions described in section 1 hereof.
Sec 3. The Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized to redelegate to (1) the Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife, (2) the Commissioner of Fish and Wildlife, (3) the Directors of the Bureaus of Commercial Fisheries and Sport Fisheries and Wildlife, and (4) the Regional Directors, Alaska Region, of the Bureaus of Commercial Fisheries and Sport Fisheries and Wildlife all or any part of the authority delegated to the Secretary of the Interior by section 2 hereof.
Sec. 4. All transfers and conveyances made under or pursuant to this order shall be made in accordance with such policies, conditions, and procedures as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
December 29, 1959.