WHEREAS a dispute exists between the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad Company and other carriers represented by the Western Carriers' Conference Committee, designated in List A attached hereto and hereby made a part hereof, and certain of their employees represented by the Switchmen's Union of North America, AFL-CIO, a labor organization; and
WHEREAS this dispute has not heretofore been adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended; and
WHEREAS this dispute, in the judgment of the National Mediation Board, threatens substantially to interrupt interstate commerce to a degree such as to deprive a section of the country of essential transportation service:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 10 of the Railway Labor Act, as amended (45 U.S.C. 160), I hereby create a board of three members, to be appointed by me, to investigate this dispute. No member of the board shall be pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of railroad employees or any carrier.
The board shall report its findings to the President with respect to the dispute within thirty days from the date of this order.
As provided by section 10 of the Railway Labor Act, as amended, from this date and for thirty days after the board has made its report to the President, no change, except by agreement, shall be made by the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad Company or any other carrier represented by the Western Carriers' Conference Committee, or by their employees, in the conditions out of which the dispute arose.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 23, 1960.
List A
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad Company
Davenport, Rock Island and North Western Railway Company
Denver and Rio Grande Western Railroad Company
Port Worth and Denver Railway Company
Great Northern Railway Company
Kansas City Terminal Railway Company
Lake Superior Terminal and Transfer Railway
Los Angeles Junction Railway Company
Minneapolis & St. Louis Railway Company
The Railway Transfer Company of the City of Minneapolis
Northern Pacific Terminal Company of Oregon
The Saint Paul Union Depot Company
Sioux City Terminal Railway Company
Southern Pacific Company (Pacific Lines) (Excluding former El Paso & Southwestern System) (Excluding Nogalee, Arizona Yard.)
Southern Pacific Company (Pacific Lines) (Former E3 Paso & Southwestern System.)
Southern Pacific Company (Pacific Lines) (Nogales, Arizona, Yard.)
Spokane International Railroad Company
Texas Pacific-Missouri Pacific
Terminal Railroad of New Orleans
The Western Pacific Railroad