By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is ordered that Executive Order No. 10289 of September 17, 1951, headed "Providing for the Performance of Certain Functions of the President by the Secretary of the Treasury" (3 CPR, ch. II), as amended by Executive Order No. 10583 of December 18, 1954 (3 CPR, ch. II), be, and it is hereby, further amended by amending the first proviso of subparagraph (f) of paragraph 1 thereof, and by deleting the second proviso of that subparagraph, so that the said subparagraph (f), in its entirety, will hereafter read as follows:
"(f) The authority vested in the President by section 4228 of the Revised Statutes, as amended (46 U.S.C. 141), (1) to declare that—upon satisfactory proof being given by the government of any foreign nation that no discriminating duties of tonnage or imposts are imposed or levied in the ports of such nation upon vessels wholly belonging to citizens of the United States, or upon the produce, manufactures, or merchandise imported in the same from the United States or from any foreign country—the foreign discriminating duties of tonnage and impost within the United States are suspended and discontinued, so far as respects the vessels of such foreign nation, and the produce, manufactures, or merchandise imported into the United States from such foreign nation, or from any other foreign country, and (2) to suspend in part the operation of section 4219 of the Revised Statutes, as amended (46 U.S.C. 121), and section IV, J, subsection 1 of the act of October 3, 1913, c. 16, 38 Stat. 195, as amended (46 U.S.C. 146), so that foreign vessels from a country Imposing partial discriminating tonnage duties upon American vessels, or partial discriminating import duties upon American merchandise, may enjoy in our ports the identical privileges which the same class of American vessels and merchandise may enjoy in such country: Provided, that prior to the issuance of an order of the Secretary of the Treasury suspending and discontinuing (wholly or in part) discriminating tonnage duties, imposts, and Import duties within the United States, the Department of State shall obtain and furnish to the Secretary of the Treasury the proof required by the said section 4228, as amended, as the basis for that order."
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
July 18, 1960.