By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 our children embody the promise of a better world, and are our most cherished and most rewarding responsibility; and
Whereas
 we must strive continually to advance their spiritual, mental, and physical well-being; and
Whereas
 the observance of a special day emphasizing the importance of child health affords us an opportunity to express our common concern for the health of America's younger generation; and
Whereas
 the Congress, by a joint resolution of May 18, 1928, 45 Stat. 817, as amended by a joint resolution of September 22, 1959, 73 Stat. 827 (36 U.S.C. 143). has authorized and requested the President of the United States to issue annually a proclamation setting apart the first Monday in October as Child Health Day; and
Whereas
 Child Health Day is also an appropriate time for the people of the United States to observe a Universal Children's Day, and to salute the work which the United Nations, through its specialized agencies, and the United Nations Children's Fund are doing to build better health for children around the world:
Now, Therefore, I, Dwight D. Eisenhower
, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate Monday, the third day of October 1960, as Child Health Day; and I invite all persons and all agencies and organizations interested in the welfare of children to unite on that day in observances that will emphasize the breadth and depth of our concern that our children have the best possible health so that they may better discharge the responsibilities of leadership which will soon be theirs.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this thirty-first day of August in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-fifth.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
By the President:
CHRISTIAN A. HERTER,
Secretary of State