By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States and in order to advance the cause of street and highway safety, it Is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. (a) There is hereby continued, subject to the provisions of this order, the President's Committee for Traffic Safety, established on April 13, 1954.
(b) The President's Committee for Traffic Safety (hereinafter referred to as the Committee) shall be composed of not more than twelve members appointed by the President, including individuals active in agriculture, business, labor, public-information media, civic, service, and women's organizations, and such other groups as the President may determine. The Chairman of the Governors' Conference shall be a member of the Committee during his term as Chairman of the Governors' Conference.
SEC. 2. (a) The Committee, on behalf of the President, shall promote State and community application of the Action Program of traffic safety measures established by the President's Highway Safety Conference in 1946, and revised in 1949, and shall further revise and perfect that Action Program in accordance with the findings of further research and experience. It shall also develop effective citizen organization in the States and communities in support of public officials with Action Program responsibilities.
(b) The Committee shall cooperate with Federal, State, and local officials and interested national organizations, including the Council of State Governments, the American Municipal Association, and the National Association of County Officials, and shall encourage them to study traffic-safety needs, adopt uniform traffic laws and ordinances, and conduct balanced traffic-safety programs.
(c) The Committee may establish or continue such advisory groups (including the Advisory Council which it has heretofore established) as may be necessary to assist it in carrying out its activities, shall prescribe such regulations as it deems appropriate for such groups, and shall appoint the member organizations. Through such advisory groups and their member organizations, the Committee shall aid citizen leaders in developing effective support organizations, assist public officials in determining specific needs and applying remedial measures, plan and guide nationwide traffic safety educational efforts, and advance all areas of highway safety.
SEC. 3. (a) The Chairman of the Committee shall be designated by the President and shall direct the work of the Committee. The Chairman may designate a Vice Chairman to serve as Chairman in his absence. The Chairman may from time to time prescribe such necessary rules, procedures, and policies relating to the Committee and the conduct of its affairs as are not Inconsistent with law or with the provisions of this order.
(b) The Committee shall meet annually, and at such other times and places as the Chairman may deem necessary.
(c) Members of the Committee shall serve without compensation.
SEC. 4. The Secretary of Commerce may make available to the Committee, within the limitations of section 313 of title 23 of the United States Code and subject to the availability of appropriations, such office space, staff, equipment, supplies, and services as may be necessary for the operations of the Committee.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
January 13, 1960.