WHEREAS, the United States Government has an obligation to maintain and develop programs and policies to promote the welfare of its younger citizens, and 
WHEREAS, the steady growth, in the incidence of juvenile delinquency and youth crime has long been recognized as a national problem of major concern, and 
WHEREAS, there is a demonstrated need that the resources of the Federal Government be promptly mobilized to provide leadership and direction in a national effort to strengthen our social structure and to correlate, at all levels of government, juvenile and youth services; that training of personnel for juvenile and youth programs be intensified; and, that research to develop more effective measures for the prevention, treatment, and control of juvenile delinquency and youth crime be broadened: 
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. (a) There is hereby established the President's Committee on Juvenile Delinquency and Youth Crime (hereinafter referred to as the Committee). The Committee shall be composed of the Attorney General, the Secretary of Labor, and the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare. Each member of the Committee shall designate an official or employee of his department as an alternate member who shall serve as a member of the Committee in lieu of the regular member whenever the regular member is unable to attend any meeting of the Committee; and the alternate member shall while serving as such have in all respects the same status as a member of the Committee as does the regular member for whom he is serving. The Chairman of the Committee shall be the Attorney General. 
(b) The Committee may invite representatives of the Judiciary to participate in its deliberations. 
SEC. 2. The Committee (1) shall review, evaluate and promote the coordination of the activities of the several departments and agencies of the Federal Government relating to juvenile delinquency and youth crime; (2) shall stimulate experimentation, innovation and improvement in Federal programs; (3) shall encourage cooperation and the sharing of information between Federal agencies and state, local and private organizations having similar responsibilities and interests; (4) shall make recommendations to the Federal departments and agencies on measures to make more effective the prevention, treatment, and control of juvenile delinquency and youth crime. 
SEC. 3. There is hereby established the Citizens Advisory Council (hereinafter referred to as the Council) which shall consist of not less than 12 and not more than 21 members, who shall be persons (including persons from public and voluntary organizations) who are recognized authorities in professional or technical fields related to juvenile delinquency or youth crime, or persons representative of the general public who are leaders in programs concerned with juvenile delinquency or youth crime, and who shall be designated by the Chairman of the Committee after consultation with the Committee and serve at the pleasure of the Committee. The Chairman of the Council shall be designated by the Chairman of the Committee. 
SEC. 4. The Council shall furnish the Committee advice and recommendations with respect to the matters with which the Committee is concerned under section 2 of this order and any other matters relating to the functions of the Committee on which it may desire information or advice. 
SEC. 5. The Committee shall make reports to the President from time to time with respect to its activities and shall make recommendations to the President regarding policy, programs and any additional measures including legislation which it deems desirable to further the objectives of this order. 
SEC. 6. All executive departments and agencies of the Government are authorized and directed to cooperate with the Committee and to furnish it such information and assistance, not inconsistent with law, as it may require in the performance of its functions and duties. 
SEC. 7. Consonant with law, the Departments of Justice, Labor, and Health, Education, and Welfare, shall as may be necessary for the effectuation of the purpose of this order, furnish assistance to the Committee in accordance with section 214 of the Act of May 3, 1945, 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691). Such assistance may include the detailing of employees to the Committee to perform such functions, consistent with the purpose of this order, as the Chairman of the Committee may assign to them. One of such employees may be designated to serve as Executive Director of the Committee. The necessary office space, facilities and supplies for the use of the Committee shall be furnished by the three departments concerned as they shall agree. 
JOHN F. KENNEDY
THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 11, 1961