By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Government Employees' Incentive Awards Act (68 Stat. 1112), and as President of the United States, it is ordered that Executive Order No. 10717 of June 27, 1957, be amended by substituting for section 2, 7, and 8 thereof the following: 
"SEC. 2. (a) The President's Award for Distinguished Federal Civilian Service shall be presented by the President to civilian officers or employees of the Federal Government for the best achievements having current impact in improving Government operations or serving the public interest. These achievements shall exemplify one or more of the following: 
(1) Imagination in developing creative solutions to problems of government. 
(2) Courage in persevering against great odds and difficulties. 
(3) High ability in accomplishing extraordinary scientific or technological achievement, in providing outstanding leadership in planning, organizing, or directing a major program of unusual importance and complexity, or in performing an extraordinary act of credit to the Government and the country. 
(4) Long and distinguished career service. 
(b) The importance of the achievements to the Government and to the public interest shall be so outstanding that the officer or employee is deserving of greater public recognition than that which can be accorded by the head of the department or agency in which he is employed. Generally, not more than five awards shall be made in any one year. Presentation of the award shall be made at such times as the President may determine. 
"SEC. 7. The Board is authorized to prescribe the method and form for making nominations for this award, but the Board shall not recommend a nominee for the award without the concurrence of the head of the agency in which the nominee was employed at the time of the achievement for which the award is recommended. 
"SEC. 8. The Board shall be guided in the performance of its functions by the provisions of subsections (b) and (c) of section 304 of the Government Employees' Incentive Awards Act, and by any additional criteria established by the Board. Persons appointed by the President shall not be eligible for this award unless, in the opinion of the Board, they are currently serving in a career position." 
JOHN F. KENNEDY
THE WHITE HOUSE,
December 12, 1961