By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. (a) There is hereby established the President's Council on Aging (hereinafter referred to as the "Council"). 
(b) The Council shall be composed of the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, who shall be Chairman, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Chairman of the Civil Service Commission, the Administrator of the Housing and Home Finance and the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs. 
(c) The Chairman of the Council shall invite the head of any other Federal department or agency to attend any meeting of the Council at which any matter within or affecting the area of responsibility of such department or agency is considered and to be a temporary member with respect to such matter. 
SEC. 2. The Council shall: 
(a) Maintain a continuing study of the overall responsibilities of the Federal Government with respect to the problems of the aging and make recommendations to the President concerning policies and programs required to meet Federal responsibilities, particularly on matters which do not fall within the jurisdiction of a single agency. 
(b) Identify matters which require coordinated action by two or more Federal agencies and make appropriate arrangements for joint, or coordinated action, including, as appropriate, conferences, joint studies, and the development of recommendations to the President. 
(c) Promote the sharing and dissemination of information on the needs of the aging and policies and programs relating to the aging among Federal departments and agencies and between them and State, local, or private agencies and organizations having functions or interests in fields relating to the problems of the aging. 
(d) Prepare an annual consolidated report to the President concerning the activities of the Council and the several Federal departments and agencies having programs relating to the aging. 
SEC. 3. (a) Consonant with law, each department or agency represented on the Council shall, as may be necessary for the effectuation of the purpose of this order, furnish assistance to the Council in accordance with Section 214 of the Act of May 3, 1945, 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691). 
(b) Other Federal departments and agencies are also authorized and directed, to the extent not inconsistent with law, to cooperate with the Council and to furnish it such information and assistance as it may find necessary in the performance of its functions. 
SEC. 4. The Federal Council on Aging, established by a letter from the President to the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, dated March 7, 1959, is hereby abolished and that letter is hereby superseded. 
JOHN F. KENNEDY
THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 14, 1962