By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
, by Proclamation No. 1640 of October 14, 1922 (42 Stat. 2235), there were reserved and set apart, as the Timpanogos Cave National Monument, Utah, certain lands as shown on a diagram forming a part of that proclamation; and 
Whereas
 a subsequent survey, accepted by the General Land Office on May 17, 1945, disclosed that that diagram does not accurately depict the boundaries of the monument as those boundaries are marked on the ground; and 
Whereas
 it appears that it would be in the public interest to redefine the external boundaries of the monument in conformity with the survey: 
Now, Therefore, I, John F. Kennedy,
 President of the United States of America, under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Act of June 8, 1906 (34 Stat. 225; 16 U.S.C. 431), do proclaim that the lands within the following described boundaries shall constitute the Timpanogos Cave National Monument: 
SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN, UTAH 
Beginning at a point marked by a brass cap located 5.33 chains S. 7°30' W. from the quarter section corner common to sections 27 and 25, township 4 south, range 2 east; thence north approximately 20 chains to a point; thence east approximately 50 chains to a point; thence south approximately 50 chains to a point; thence west approximately 50 chains to a point; thence north approximately 30 chains to a brass cap, the point of beginning, as depleted on the plat for township No. 4 south, range No. 2 east, of the Salt Lake Meridian, Utah, Survey and Dependent Resurvey, accepted May 17, 1945, by Assistant Commissioner, General Land Office, Joel David Wolfsohn. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America, to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this twenty-seventh day of March in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-sixth. 
JOHN F. KENNEDY 
By the President: 
GEORGE BALL, 
Acting Secretary of State