By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Public Works Acceleration Act, approved September 14, 1962 (Public Law 87-658), hereinafter referred to as the Act, and by Section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. The Secretary of Commerce shall assist the President in the carrying out of the Public Works Acceleration Act and to that end he shall (a) receive and coordinate proposals from Federal agencies for allocations from funds appropriated pursuant to Section 3 of the Act, and (b) make recommendations to the President for the allocation of such funds. The Secretary shall maintain such records of progress and accomplishments and shall recommend such actions by the President as are necessary to assure that Federal responsibilities under the Act are carried out expeditiously. 
SEC. 2. There is hereby delegated to the Secretary of Commerce the authority vested in the President by Section 3(e) of the Act to prescribe rules, regulations, and procedures to carry out Section 3 of the Act. In prescribing such rules, regulations, and procedures, the Secretary shall include therein provisions to assure that (a) preference in employment on public works undertaken pursuant to the Act shall, insofar as practicable, be given to qualified local labor, (b) funds allocated under the Act shall be supplementary to other Federal funds which otherwise would have been expended in eligible areas as defined in the Act, and (c) appropriate State and local agencies shall direct requests for Federal assistance to the Federal agency administering the law authorizing such assistance. 
SEC. 3. Federal departments and agencies receiving allocations of funds appropriated pursuant to the Act shall make such regular reports and provide such other information to the Secretary of Commerce as he deems necessary in order to carry out his responsibilities under this order, and shall cooperate with the Secretary to assure that Federal funds are expended in accordance with the requirements of the Act and of the rules, regulations, and procedures prescribed pursuant to the Act. 
JOHN F. KENNEDY
THE WHITE HOUSE,
September 14, 1962