By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
, pursuant to section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 624, the President, on June 8, 1953, issued Proclamation No. 3019, 67 Stat. C46, imposing fees or quantitative limitations on imports of products specified in Lists I, II, and III appended to and made a part of that proclamation, which has been modified or amended from time to time; and 
Whereas
 the United States Tariff Commission has made an investigation under the authority of subsection (d) of the said section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, supplemental to its investigation No. 6 under that section 22, to determine whether the quota imposed by Proclamation No. 3019 on blue-mold (except Stilton) cheese, and cheese and substitutes for cheese containing, or processed from, blue-mold cheese (hereinafter referred to collectively as blue-mold cheese) should be enlarged or eliminated; and 
Whereas
 the said Commission has submitted to me a report of its supplemental investigation; and 
Whereas
, on the basis of such investigation and report, I find and declare that changed circumstances require the modification of the quota on blue-mold cheese as hereinafter proclaimed in order to carry out the purposes of the said section 22: 
Now, Therefore, I, John F. Kennedy,
 President of the United States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 22(d) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended, do hereby amend, effective immediately, List H appended to the said Proclamation No. 3019(a) by increasing the aggregate quantity for blue-mold cheese, as such quantity is applicable to the current quota year which began July 1, 1961, by 283,333 pounds and (b) by increasing the aggregate quantity for blue-mold cheese by an amount equal to 283,333 pounds for each third of a quota year commencing on July 1, 1962, and on July 1 of subsequent years. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this 29th day of March in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-sixth. 
JOHN F. KENNEDY 
By the President: 
DEAN RUSK, 
Secretary of State