WHEREAS section 33 (c) of the Federal Employees' Compensation Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 784), declared it to be the purpose of the Congress to reduce the number of accidents and injuries among Government officers and employees, encourage safe practices, eliminate work hazards and health risks, and reduce compensable injuries; and 
WHEREAS section 35 of that Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 785), further disclosed the interest of the Congress in the promotion of safety in Federal agencies and establishments; and 
WHEREAS the Federal Employees' Compensation Act, as amended and as modified by Reorganization Plan No. 19 of 1950 (hereinafter referred to as the Act), directs the heads of Government departments and agencies to develop, support, and foster organized safety promotion, and to keep such records of injuries and accidents to persons covered by the Act, and to make such statistical and other reports upon such forms as the Secretary of Labor may prescribe; and 
WHEREAS the preponderance of accidents involving employees in the Federal service occur in field operations, the heads of executive departments and agencies, and through them, their supervisory staffs, including regional and field staffs, must exert leadership in the establishment of a sound accident prevention program at both the national and regional level; and 
WHEREAS representatives of Federal employees should share a similar concern for the establishment of such programs; and 
WHEREAS the President is authorized by the Act to establish by Executive order a safety council composed of representatives of Government departments and agencies to serve as an advisory body to the Secretary of Labor in furtherance of the safety program carried out by the Secretary pursuant to section 33 of the Act and to undertake such other measures as he deems proper to prevent injuries and accidents to persons covered by the Act: 
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 33(c) of the Act and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. 
Establishment of Council.
 There is hereby established in the Department of Labor the Federal Safety Council, hereinafter referred to as the Council. The Council shall be composed of a Chairman, to be designated by the Secretary of Labor, and one qualified representative of each of the several executive departments and agencies and of the municipal government of the District of Columbia (hereinafter referred to as members). The heads of the departments and agencies and the Board of Commissioners of the District of Columbia shall designate the members representing them, respectively, and may also designate suitable alternate members. The Secretary of Labor may, as he deems appropriate, appoint representatives of national or international unions, having Federal employees as members, to serve as consultants to the various committees established by the Council. The Chairman, members, alternate members, and consultants shall serve, as such, without compensation from the United States. 
SEC. 2. 
Purpose and functions of Council.
 The Council shall serve in an advisory capacity to the Secretary of Labor in matters relating to the safety of civilian employees of the Federal government and the municipal government of the District of Columbia and the furtherance of the safety program carried out by the Secretary pursuant to section 33 of the Act. It shall advise the Secretary of Labor with respect to the development and maintenance of adequate and effective safety organizations and programs in the several departments and agencies of the Federal government and the municipal government of the District of Columbia and with respect to criteria, standards, and procedures designed to eliminate work hazards and health risks and to prevent injuries and accidents in Federal employment. 
SEC. 3. 
Council affiliates, committees, and officers.
 The Council shall include as an integral part of its organizational structure and operations such affiliates, hereafter established by the Council or now existing, in such manner and to such extent as it deems necessary properly and efficiently to perform its functions. The Council shall establish such committees, and may choose such officers (other than its chairman), as it finds necessary for carrying out its functions. 
SEC. 4. 
Regulations.
 The Secretary of Labor shall prescribe appropriate regulations governing the activities and functions of the Council. 
SEC. 5. 
Administrative and budgetary arrangements.
 The Secretary of Labor shall make available necessary office space and furnish the Council necessary equipment, supplies, and staff services. 
SEC. 6. 
Continuity.
 The Federal Safety Council established by this order shall be deemed to constitute a continuation of the Federal Safety Council heretofore existing under the provisions of Executive Order No. 10194 of December 19, 1950. 
SEC. 7. 
Revocation.
 Executive Order No. 10194 of December 19, 1950, is hereby superseded. 
JOHN F. KENNEDY
THE WHITE HOUSE,
February 2, 1962