By virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 5 (b) of the Act of October 6, 1917, as amended, 12 U.S.C. 95a, and in view of the continued existence of the national emergency proclaimed by Proclamation No. 2914 of December 16, 1950, I, John F. Kennedy, President of the United States of America, do hereby further amend Executive Order No. 6260, as amended, as follows: 
1. Section 12 is amended to read as follows: 
"12. Except under license issued therefor pursuant to the provisions of this order, no person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States shall, after the effective date of this section, acquire, hold in his possession, earmark, or retain any interest, legal or equitable, in any gold coin, gold certificates, or gold bullion, situated outside of the United States or any securities issued by any person holding, as a substantial part of his assets, gold as a store of value or as, or in lieu of, money and not for a specific and customary industrial, professional or artistic use. The Secretary of the Treasury, subject to such other regulations as he may prescribe, is authorized to issue licenses permitting the acquisition and holding by persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States of gold bullion situated outside of the United States which the Secretary or such agency as he may designate is satisfied is required for legitimate and customary use in the industry, profession, or art in which such person is regularly engaged." 
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1 of this Order, the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to issue licenses permitting, until January 1, 1963, the holding and disposition or importation of gold coins having a recognized special value to collectors of rare and unusual coin situated outside of the United States which were acquired by persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States prior to the effective date of this amendment and are owned by such persons on such date. 
This amendment shall become effective upon filing for publication with the Office of the Federal Register. 
JOHN F. KENNEDY
THE WHITE HOUSE,
July 20, 1962