WHEREAS recent studies, both private and public, have revealed disturbing deficiencies in the physical fitness of American youth; and 
WHEREAS, since the youth of our Nation is one of our greatest assets, it is imperative that the physical fitness of our youth be improved and promoted to the greatest possible extent; and 
WHEREAS there also are evidences of deficiencies in the physical fitness of American adults; and 
WHEREAS there is a close relationship between physical fitness and intellectual vigor and moral strength; and 
WHEREAS the physical fitness of its citizens is a concern of the government at all levels, as well as a responsibility of the family, the school, the community, and other groups and organizations; and 
WHEREAS it is necessary that the activities of the Federal Government in this area be coordinated and administered so as to assure their maximum effectiveness and to provide guidance and stimulation: 
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. 
President's Council of Physical Fitness.
 There is hereby established the President's Council on Physical Fitness (hereinafter referred to as the Council), which shall be composed of the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, who shall be the Chairman of the Council, the Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Labor, and the Housing and Home Finance Administrator. 
SEC. 2. 
 Functions of the Council.
 (a) The Council shall foster improvements in existing programs and promote additional efforts to enhance the physical fitness of Americans. The Council shall seek to coordinate, stimulate, and improve the functions of Federal agencies with respect to physical fitness. 
(b) The Council shall enlist the active support and assistance of individual citizens, civic groups, professional associations, private enterprise, voluntary organizations, and other groups in a vigorous effort to promote and improve the physical fitness of all Americans. 
SEC. 3. 
Federal Agencies.
 (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to abrogate, modify, or restrict any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any executive department or other agency of the Government or any officer thereof. 
(b) Each executive department the head of which is referred to in section 1 of this order shall, as may be necessary for the purpose of effectuating the provisions of this order, furnish assistance to the Council in accordance with section 214 of the act of May 3, 1945, 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691). 
SEC. 4. 
Continuity.
 The Council established by this order shall be deemed to be a continuation of the President's Council on Youth Fitness. 
SEC. 5. 
Seal.
 Executive Order 10830 of July 24, 1959, prescribing a seal for the President's Council on Youth Fitness, is hereby amended by substituting the word "Physical" wherever the word "Youth" appears in said order. 
SEC. 6. 
Revocations.
 Executive Order 10673 of July 16, 1956, Executive Order 10772 of June 30, 1958, and Executive Order 10931 of March 29, 1961, are hereby revoked. 
JOHN F. KENNEDY
THE WHITE HOUSE,
January 8, 1963