By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States by the International Wheat Agreement Act of 1949, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1641 
et seq. ),
 hereinafter referred to as the "Act," it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. 
Scope.
 The Secretary of Agriculture (hereinafter referred to as "Secretary") shall exercise the power, authority, and discretion conferred on the President by the Act, and to this end the Secretary is authorized, among other things, to: 
(a) Make available or cause to be made available, through the Commodity Credit Corporation, such quantities of wheat and wheat-flour and at such prices as are necessary to exercise the rights, obtain the benefits, achieve the objectives, and fulfill the obligations of the United States under the International Wheat Agreement. 
(b) Prohibit or restrict the importation or exportation of wheat or wheat-flour and issue such rules and regulations as he may deem necessary in the implementation of the International Wheat Agreement. 
(c) Require, in accordance with such regulations as he may prescribe, the making of such reports and the keeping of such records as he finds necessary to enable him to carry out the purposes of the Act. 
(d) Examine such books, papers, records, accounts, correspondence, contracts, documents, and memoranda as are relevant to transactions under the International Wheat Agreement and are within the control of any person required to make reports or keep records under such regulations. 
(e) Take such other action as may be necessary in his judgment in the implementation of the International Wheat Agreement. 
SEC. 2. 
Interagency Cooperation.
 The Secretary, in exercising the authority delegated herein, shall consult with the Secretary of State, the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations, and other officers or agencies of the Government as may be appropriate. 
SEC 3. 
Redelegation.
 The Secretary is hereby authorized to redelegate within the Department of Agriculture the authority hereinabove delegated to him. 
JOHN F. KENNEDY
THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 22, 1963