By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
To the People of the United States:
 
With deep regret, I announce the death of General of the Army Douglas MacArthur, who died today at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, D.C. 
As one of the most distinguished soldiers in the history of the United States, General MacArthur dedicated his entire life to selfless service in the defense of freedom. He was a living embodiment of the code which he so eloquently expressed-duty-honor-country. 
Outstanding performance of duty and conspicuous leadership marked his career, which included service as Chief of Staff and Commander of the Rainbow Division in World War I, as Chief of Staff of the United States Army from 1930 through 1935, as commander of the forces which liberated the Philippines in World War II, as Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers in Japan, and as Commander of the United Nations forces in Korea.. We will forever be indebted to him for his integrity, his courage, and his brilliant accomplishments as a soldier and citizen; we will never forget that his ultimate goal was peace among men. 
As a mark of respect for the memory of General MacArthur, I hereby order that the flag of the United States shall be flown at half-staff in the District of Columbia and throughout the United States and its territories and possessions, upon all public buildings and grounds, at all military posts and naval stations, and on all naval vessels, until after his funeral shall have taken place. I also direct that the flag shall be flown at half-staff for the same length of time at all United States embassies, legations, consular offices, and other facilities abroad, including all military facilities and naval vessels and stations. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this fifth day of April in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and-sixty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-eighth. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON 
By the President: 
Dean Rusk,
Secretary of State.