WHEREAS, there exist certain labor disputes between employers (or associations by which such employers are represented in collective bargaining conferences) who are (1) steamship companies or who are engaged as operators or agents for ships engaged in service from or to Atlantic and Gulf Coast ports from Searsport, Maine, to Brownsville, Texas, or from or to other ports of the United States or its territories or possessions, (2) contracting stevedores, (3) contracting marine carpenters, (4) lighterage operators, or (5) other employers engaged in related or associated pier activities and certain of their employees represented by the International Longshoremen's Association, AFL-CIO; and
WHEREAS, such disputes have resulted in a threatened strike which if permitted to occur, will, in my opinion, affect a substantial part of the maritime industry, an industry engaged in trade, commerce, transportation, transmission, or communication among the several States and with foreign nations, and which threatened strike will, if permitted to occur, imperil the national health and safety and affect the flow and utilization of necessary perishable products, including food, for heavily populated coastal, island, and insular areas;
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 206 of the Labor-Management Relations Act, 1947 (61 Stat. 155; 29 U.S.C. 176), I hereby create a Board of Inquiry, consisting of Honorable Herbert Schmertz, as Chairman, Honorable James J. Healy, and Honorable Theodore W. Kheel, as Members, whom I hereby appoint to inquire into the issues involved in such disputes.
The Board shall have powers and duties as set forth in Title II of such Act. The Board shall report to the President in accordance with the provisions of Section 206 of such Act on or before Thursday, October 1, 1964.
Upon the submission of its report, the Board shall continue in existence to perform such other functions as may be required under such Act.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House,
September 30, 1964.