WHEREAS sound public policy requires a continuing appraisal of the relation of Federal educational activities to the educational needs and goals of the Nation and to its educational systems and institutions; and
WHEREAS the scope of, and program outlays for, Federal educational activities have been expanded greatly and have a significant influence on education in this country and on the American people; and
WHEREAS many Federal agencies are involved both directly and indirectly in carrying on educational programs either as Federal activities or in cooperation with State and local units of government; and
WHEREAS closer coordination of Federal educational activities will facilitate the resolution of common problems and otherwise promote effective planning and management of such activities; and
WHEREAS, under the direction of the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare (hereinafter referred to as the Secretary), the Office of Education is directed by law to collect data on the progress of education, provide information to aid in the maintenance of efficient school systems, and otherwise promote the cause of education throughout the country (14 Stat. 434; 20 U.S.C. 1):
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Functions of the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare. The Secretary, with the assistance of the Commissioner of Education (hereinafter referred to as the Commissioner), shall identify the education needs and goals of the Nation and from time to time shall recommend to the President policies for promoting the progress of education.
Sec. 2. Functions of the Commissioner of Education. Under the direction of the Secretary, the Commissioner shall:
(a) study the current effects of Federal activities upon the educational programs of State, local and nonprofit educational institutions, assess future trends of such activities, and (taking into consideration the relationship between education and policies in fields such as manpower development, defense, military manpower, economic growth, and science) develop recommendations for educational activities, or for coordination of policies affecting such activities;
(b) exercise leadership in seeking timely resolution of differences of opinion concerning policies or administrative practices with respect to Federal educational activities affecting educational institutions;
(c) make appropriate arrangements for obtaining advice and information, including establishment of ad hoc working groups to consider special problems, and utilizing existing interagency machinery wherever appropriate; and
(d) exercise initiative in obtaining pertinent and consistent data permitting an overview of Federal educational activities.
Sec. 3. Agency responsibilities. The heads of Federal agencies, as to their respective education related programs, shall:
(a) insofar as practicable, take such actions as may be necessary to assure: (1) conformity of their programs with the educational goals and policies of the Nation, as identified by the Secretary, and (2) consistent administrative policies and practices among Federal agencies in the conduct of similar programs;
(b) keep each other fully and currently informed in order to achieve coordinated planning and prevent unnecessary duplication of activities;
(c) provide information requested by the Secretary or the Commissioner on educational matters; and
(d) cooperate with the Secretary and the Commissioner in the conduct of such studies and analyses as may be necessary to carry out the responsibilities and duties assigned by this order. To this end the heads of Federal agencies shall maintain information on current and planned activities that can readily be analyzed in conjunction with information on related activities of other Federal agencies.
Sec. 4. Establishment and functions of a Federal Interagency Committee on Education. (a) There is hereby established a "Federal Interagency Committee on Education" (hereinafter referred to as the "Committee").
(b) The Committee shall advise the Secretary, the Commissioner, and the heads of Federal agencies in connection with the responsibilities assigned to them by this order.
(c) The Committee shall be composed of the Commissioner, who shall be the chairman, and one appropriate representative of each of the following: the Department of State, the Department of Defense, the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Labor, the National Science Foundation, the Atomic Energy Commission, and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
(d) The chairman may invite Federal agencies additional to those which are represented on the Committee under the provisions of subsection (c), above, to designate representatives to participate in meetings of the Committee on matters of substantial interest to such agencies which are to be considered by the Committee.
(e) The Director of the Bureau of the Budget, the Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, and the Director of the Office of Science and Technology may each designate a member of his staff to attend meetings of the Committee as an observer.
(f) Each Federal agency which is represented on the Committee under the provisions of subsection (c), above, including the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, shall furnish necessary assistance to the Committee in accordance with Section 214 of the Act of May 3, 1945, 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691).
Sec. 5. Construction. Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any Federal agency, or any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal agency, to the authority of any other Federal agency, or as abrogating or restricting any such function in any manner.
Sec. 6. Definition. Except as may be inconsistent with the provisions of this order or otherwise inappropriate, the term "Federal agency", as used herein, includes any department or other agency or instrumentality (including officers) of the executive branch of the Government of the United States.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House,
October 16, 1964.