By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the United States, including Sections 703(a) and 710(e) of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 TJ.S.C. App. 2153 (a); 2160(e)), and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. There shall be in the Executive Branch of the Government a National Defense Executive Reserve composed of persons selected from various segments of the civilian economy and from government for training for employment in executive positions in the Federal Government in the event of the occurrence of an emergency that requires such employment.
Sec. 2. The Director of the Office of Emergency Planning (hereinafter referred to as the Director) shall administer the Executive Reserve program; coordinate the activities of other agencies in establishing units of the Reserve; provide for appropriate standards of recruitment and training; approve prospective members of the Executive Reserve; and issue necessary rules and regulations in connection with the program.
Sec. 3. The Director, in carrying out his responsibilities under this order, may utilize the services of other departments and agencies in the maintenance of agency and centralized rosters and in the development of training programs and materials.
Sec. 4. (a) The head of any department or agency of the Government (hereinafter referred to as a Secretary), designated by the Director after appropriate consultation, may establish a unit of the Executive Reserve (hereinafter referred to as Executive Reserve Units) in his respective department or agency.
(b) Executive Reserve Units existing under Executive Order No. 10660 of February 15,1956, as amended, on the date of this order shall henceforth be deemed to be Executive Reserve Units under this order.
Sec. 5. Membership in Executive Reserve Units shall be subject to the following:
(1) Subject to the provisions of this order, particularly paragraph (4) of this section, an individual who on the date of this order was a member of an Executive Reserve Unit under Executive Order No. 10660 may continue to serve therein without further designation.
(2) A Secretary desiring to designate an individual to serve as a member of an Executive Reserve Unit of his department or agency shall submit the name of the prospective designee to the Director for approval. Upon approval of the prospective designee by the Director, the Secretary concerned may designate the individual as a member of the Executive Reserve Unit of his department or agency.
(3) An individual whose membership in an Executive Reserve Unit has at any time expired, or is at any time about to expire, under the terms of this order may be redesignated as a member under the procedure set forth in paragraph (2) of this section.
(4) Without limiting the authority of the respective Secretaries to terminate the membership of any individual in an Executive Reserve Unit at any time, it is directed that continued service of a member under paragraph (1) of this section, and the designation or redesignation of a member under paragraph (2) or (3) of this section, respectively (including any designation of an individual occurring at the expiration of his continued service under paragraph (1)), shall be for a period not to exceed three years.
Sec. 6. Activities of any person by reason of his continuance, designation, or redesignation as an Executive Reservist under this order shall not include acting or advising on any matter pending before any department or agency but shall be limited to receiving training for mobilization assignments under the Reserve program.
Sec. 7. The Director shall report to the President annually, and at such other times as may be appropriate, on the status and operation of the Executive Reserve program.
Sec. 8. Executive Order No. 10660 of February 15, 1956, entitled "Providing for the Establishment of a National Defense Executive Reserve," as amended, is hereby superseded.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House,
September 22, 1964.