WHEREAS the United States has initiated a program for the development of commercial supersonic aircraft; and
WHEREAS supersonic transport will advance technical knowledge, expand our international trade, strengthen our manufacturing capability, and provide employment for thousands of our citizens; and
WHEREAS the development of supersonic transport will require the participation and assistance of various Federal agencies as well as private manufacturing and transportation interests; and
WHEREAS the development of supersonic transport will involve heavy expenditures of money and resources and it is therefore essential that the activities of the Federal agencies concerned be coordinated at the highest level:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
Section 1. There is hereby established the President's Advisory Committee on Supersonic Transport (hereinafter referred to as the Committee). The Committee shall be composed of the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Commerce, the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Agency, and such other members as the President may from time to time appoint. The Secretary of Defense shall serve as Chairman of the Committee.
Sec. 2. The Committee shall study, and shall advise and make recommendations to the President with regard to, all aspects of the supersonic transport program. The Committee shall devote particular attention to the financial aspects of the program and shall maintain close coordination with the Director of the Bureau of the Budget in this regard.
Sec. 3. All Federal departments and agencies shall cooperate with the Committee and furnish it with such information and assistance, not inconsistent with law, as it may require in the performance of its duties.
Sec. 4. Members of the Committee who are officers or employees of the Federal Government shall receive no additional compensation by reason of such membership. Other members of the Committee shall be entitled to receive compensation and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving the government intermittently (5 U.S.C. 73b—2).
Sec. 5. Each Federal department and agency represented on the Committee shall furnish necessary assistance to the Committee in accordance with section 214 of the Act of May 3, 1945, 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691). Such assistance may include the detailing of employees, including consultants and experts, to the Committee to perform such functions consistent with the purposes of this Order as the Committee may assign.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House,
April 1, 1964.