By virtue of the authority vested in me by sections 301 (a) and (f), 305(a), 402(f), and 403(g) of title 37 of the United States Code and as President of the United States and Commander in Chief of the armed forces of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Part I—Incentive Pay For Hazardous Duty
Section 101. For the purposes of these regulations:
(a) The term "aerial flight" shall be construed to mean flight in an aircraft or glider; and a flight shall be deemed to begin when the aircraft or glider takes off from rest at any point of support and to terminate when it next comes to a complete stop at a point of support.
(b) The term "aviation accident" shall be construed to mean an accident in which a member who is required to participate frequently and regularly in aerial flight is injured or otherwise incapacitated as the result, as attested by the appropriate medical authority of the uniformed service concerned, of (1) jumping from, being thrown from, or being struck by, an aircraft or any part or auxiliary thereof, or (2) participation in any duly authorized aerial flight or other aircraft or glider operations.
Sec. 102. Under such regulations as the Secretary concerned may prescribe, any member of the uniformed services, including members assigned to special, administrative, or school duties, may be required by competent orders to perform hazardous duty.
Sec. 103. (a) Each member who is required by competent orders to participate frequently and regularly in aerial flights, other than glider flights, shall make the flights required as a crew member or as a noncrew member as directed ay competent authority.
(b) Determinations as to what constitutes duty as a crew member and duty as a non-crew member shall be made in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary concerned: Provided, That such determinations shall be uniform for all the services to the fullest extent practicable.
Sec. 104. Under such regulations as the Secretary concerned may prescribe, members who are required by competent orders to participate frequently and regularly in aerial flights, other than glider flights, shall be required to meet the following minimum flight requirements, except as otherwise provided in section 110 hereof, in order to be entitled to receive incentive pay for the performance of hazardous duty.
(a) Minimum flight requirements for members on active duty who may qualify for incentive pay under the provisions of section 301(a) of title 37 of the United States Code:
(1) During one calendar month: 4 hours of aerial flight.
(2) During any two consecutive calendar months when the requirements of clause (1) above have not been met: 8 hours of aerial flight.
(3) During any three consecutive calendar months when the requirements of clause (2) above have not been met: 12 hours of aerial flight.
(4) For fractions of a calendar month, the time of aerial flight required shall bear the same ratio to the time required for a full calendar month as the period in question bears to a full calendar month.
(5) For fractions of two consecutive calendar months, the period in question shall be considered as a unit and the time of aerial flight required shall bear the same ratio to the time required for a full calendar month as the period in question bears to a full calendar month.
(6) Whenever, under authority conferred by the Secretary concerned, the commanding officer of any member who has been required by competent orders to participate frequently and regularly in aerial flights, other than glider flights, certifies that on account of military operations of the particular command or on account of the unavailability of aircraft such member was unable to perform the aerial flights required by this section, such member may comply with the minimum flight requirements by performing at least 24 hours of aerial flight over a period of six consecutive calendar months, and such requirements may be met at any time during such period.
(b) Minimum flight requirements for members of reserve components of the uniformed services on inactive-duty training who may qualify for incentive pay under the provisions of section 301(f) of title 37 of the United States Code:
(1) During one calendar month: 2 hours of aerial flight.
(2) During any two consecutive calendar months, when the requirements of clause (1) above have not been met: 4 hours of aerial flight.
(3) During any three consecutive calendar months when the requirements of clause (2) above have not been met: 6 hours of aerial flight.
(4) For fractions of a calendar month, the time of aerial flight required shall bear the same ratio to the time required for a full calendar month as the period in question bears to a full calendar month.
(5) For fractions of two consecutive calendar months, the period in question shall be considered as a unit and the time of aerial flight required shall bear the same ratio to the time required for a full calendar month as the period in question bears to a full calendar month.
(c) Minimum flight requirements for members of reserve components of the uniformed services who perform both active-duty and inactive-duty training during the same calendar month and who may qualify for incentive pay under the provisions of both sections 301 (a) and 301(f) of title 37 of the United States Code:
(1) For periods of active duty, those prescribed by clause (4) of subsection (a) of this section.
(2) For periods of inactive-duty training, those prescribed by clause (4) of subsection (b) of this section.
However, the total flight requirements as determined by clauses (1) and (2) of this subsection may be met at any time during such calendar month
(i) on inactive-duty training, or
(ii) on active-duty and inactive-duty training, if the inactive-duty flight requirement for such month has been met.
Sec. 105. Members shall not be entitled to receive incentive pay for participation in aerial flights for any period while suspended from such participation, unless such suspension is subsequently removed and the minimum flight requirements prescribed in section 104 hereof have been complied with, except as otherwise provided in section 110 hereof.
Sec. 106. As determined by the Secretary of the Navy, members who, pursuant to competent orders, are attached to a submarine which is in an active status and members qualified in submarines who, pursuant to competent orders, are assigned as prospective crew members of a submarine under construction or are receiving instruction to prepare for assignment to a submarine of advanced design or for a position of increased responsibility on a submarine shall be entitled to receive incentive pay for the performance of submarine duty. In the case of nuclear-powered submarines this entitlement shall include periods of training and rehabilitation after assignment thereto. A member who, pursuant to competent orders, performs duty as an operator or crew member of an operational, self-propelled submersible, including undersea exploration and research vehicles, shall likewise be entitled to receive incentive pay for the performance of submarine duty.
Sec. 107. (a) Members who are qualified as glider personnel under such regulations as the Secretary concerned may prescribe, or who are undergoing training for such qualification, and who are required by competent orders to participate frequently and regularly in glider flights shall be required to perform one or more glider flights, without regard to duration thereof, during any three consecutive calendar months in order to be entitled to receive incentive pay for such period.
(b) Whenever, under authority conferred by the Secretary concerned, the commanding officer of any member who has been required by competent orders to participate frequently and regularly in glider flights certifies that on account of the absence or inadequacy of glider equipment or towing aircraft or other means of propulsion, or on account of military operations of the particular command, such member was unable to perform the glider flights required by this section, such member may comply with the minimum flight requirements by performing four or more glider flights, without regard to duration thereof, during a period of 12 consecutive calendar months, and such requirements may be met at any time during such period.
(c) Members of reserve components of the uniformed services who have complied with the requirement prescribed in this section shall be entitled to receive incentive pay for both active-duty and inactive duty training performed during such period.
Sec. 108. (a) As used in section 301(a) of title 37 of the United States Code, the term "duty involving parachute jumping as an essential part of military duty" shall be construed to mean duty performed by members who, under such regulations as the Secretary concerned may prescribe, have received a rating as a parachutist or parachute rigger, or are undergoing training for such a rating and who are required by competent orders to engage in parachute jumping from an aircraft in aerial flight.
(b) Members required by competent orders to engage in parachute jumping shall be required to perform one or more parachute jumps from an airplane in flight during any three consecutive calendar months in order to be entitled to receive incentive pay for such period.
(c) Whenever, under authority conferred by the Secretary concerned, the commanding officer of any member who has been required by competent orders to participate in parachute jumping certifies that on account of the absence of jump equipment or aircraft or on account of military operations of the particular command such member was unable to make the jumps required by this subsection, such member may comply with the minimum requirements by performing four jumps during a period of 12 consecutive calendar months, and such requirements may be met at any time during such period.
(d) Members of reserve components of the uniformed services who have complied with the requirements prescribed in this section shall be entitled to receive incentive pay for both active-duty and inactive duty training performed during such period.
Sec. 109. As used in section 301(a) of title 37 of the United States Code—
(a) The term "duty involving intimate contact with persons afflicted with leprosy" shall be construed to mean duty performed by any member who is assigned by competent orders to a leprosarium for the performance of duty for a period of 30 days or more or for a period of instruction, whether or not such leprosarium is under the jurisdiction of one of the uniformed services.
(b) The term "duty involving the demolition of explosives" shall be construed to mean duty performed by members who, pursuant to competent orders and as a primary duty assignment (1) demolish by the use of explosives underwater objects, obstacles, or explosives, or recover and render harmless, by disarming or demolition, explosives which have failed to function as intended or which have become a potential hazard; (2) participate as students or instructors in instructional training, including that in the field or fleet, for the duties described in clause (1) hereof, provided that live explosives are used in such training; (3) participate in proficiency training, including that in the field or fleet, for the maintenance of skill in the duties described in clause (1) hereof, provided that live explosives are used in such training; or (4) experiment with or develop tools, equipment, or procedures for the demolition and rendering harmless of explosives, provided that live explosives are used.
(c) The term "duty inside a high- or low-pressure chamber" shall be construed to mean duty performed within pressure chambers at physiological facilities by members assigned to that duty.
(d) The term "duty as human acceleration or deceleration experimental subject" shall be construed to mean duty performed by members exposed as human acceleration or deceleration experimental subjects utilizing experimental acceleration or deceleration devices.
(e) The term "duty as human test subject in thermal stress experiments" shall be construed to mean duty performed by members exposed as human thermal experimental subjects in thermal stress experiments conducted under the supervision of any laboratory designated by the Secretary concerned.
Sec. 110. Any member who is required by competent orders to perform hazardous duty, or multiple hazardous duties, and who becomes injured or otherwise incapacitated as a result of the performance of any such hazardous duty, by aviation accident or otherwise, shall be deemed to have fulfilled all of the requirements for the performance of all hazardous duties which he is required by competent orders to perform, for a period not to exceed three months following the date as of which such incapacity is determined by the appropriate medical authority.
Sec. 111. Members required by competent orders to perform hazardous duty shall, upon compliance with the requirements of these regulations, be entitled to receive incentive pay during authorized leaves of absence.
Sec. 112. Under such regulations as the Secretary concerned may prescribe, a member who performs multiple hazardous duties under competent orders may be paid not more than two payments of incentive pay for a period of time during which he qualifies for more than one such payment. Dual payments of incentive pay shall be limited to those members who are required by competent orders to perform specific multiple hazardous duties in order to carry out their assigned missions.
Sec. 113. The Secretaries concerned are hereby authorized to prescribe such supplementary regulations not inconsistent herewith as they may deem necessary or desirable for carrying out these regulations, and such supplementary regulations shall be uniform for all the services to the fullest extent practicable.
Part II—Special Pay For Sea Duty And Duty At Certain Places
Sec. 201. Enlisted members entitled to receive basic pay shall be entitled to receive, additionally, sea-duty pay while on sea duty as defined in section 202 hereof, the period of such duty to include the date of reporting and the date of detachment as stated in orders.
Sec. 202. (a) For additional-pay purposes, and except as otherwise provided in section 203 hereof, the term "sea duty" shall mean duty performed by enlisted members:
(1) While permanently assigned to a vessel, ship-based staff, or ship-based aviation unit pursuant to orders issued by competent authority, including—
(1) periods not in excess of 15 consecutive days each while on temporary additional duty ashore or while temporarily based ashore. (The term "temporarily based ashore" refers to a ship-based staff or a ship-based aviation unit that has been landed ashore with intent to return to a ship.)
(ii) periods during which messing or berthing facilities, or both, are temporarily out of operation to permit alterations or repairs.
(2) While in a vessel pursuant to orders to temporary additional duty or temporary duty on that vessel issued by competent authority although based or stationed ashore, but only when such duty is eight days or more in duration in each case.
(3) While in a vessel in an inactive duty status, special status, or in a non-self-propelled vessel, but only on days when such vessel is operating at sea for a period of eight days or more in each case.
(4) While permanently assigned, pursuant to orders issued by competent authority, to a commissioned landing-craft squadron or a commissioned motor-torpedo-boat squadron which is a tactical component of an operating fleet in an active status and the craft of which are equipped with berthing and messing facilities.
(5) While assigned to an artificial island (such as a Texas Tower) located on the outer Continental Shelf outside the territorial waters of the United States pursuant to orders issued by competent authority, including periods not in excess of 15 consecutive days each while on duty ashore or temporarily based ashore.
(6) While on an artificial island (such as a Texas Tower) located on the outer Continental Shelf outside the territorial waters of the United States pursuant to orders issued by competent authority although based or stationed ashore, but only when such duty is eight consecutive days or more in duration in each case.
(b) For the purposes of this section, and except as provided in subsection (a) (3) hereof, the word "vessel" or "ship" shall mean a self propelled vessel in an active status, in commission or in service, and equipped with berthing and messing facilities.
Sec. 203. Except as provided in sections 202(a) (2), (3), (5), and (6) hereof, no enlisted member shall, for additional-pay purposes, be considered to be on sea duty:
(a) While on duty in a receiving ship or station ship.
(b) While on duty in a vessel which is in an inactive status.
(c) While on duty with an administrative or maintenance organization that is permanently based ashore.
Sec. 204. Enlisted members entitled to receive basic pay shall be entitled to receive, additionally, pay under the rates prescribed by section 305(a) of title 37 of the United States Code, while on duty at places that are outside the contiguous 48 States and the District of Columbia and that are designated for this purpose by the Secretary of Defense or, in the case of enlisted members of the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a service in the Navy, by the Secretary of the Treasury. Subject to the provisions of section 305 of title 37 of the United States Code, an enlisted member who is permanently assigned to duty at a place so designated is entitled to receive that pay during a period of authorized leave, temporary additional duty, temporary duty, or hospitalization, or while on an operational aircraft flight, but not for more than 30 days while he is away from that place.
Sec. 205. Unless otherwise entitled to special pay in accordance with the last sentence of section 204, hereof, during periods spent on temporary additional duty or temporary duty, or on operational aircraft flights, pay in accordance with section 204 shall accrue to enlisted members only for periods of eight continuous days or more in duration at places designated, including the dates of arrival at, and the dates of departure from, those places.
Sec. 206. Enlisted members shall not be entitled to additional pay under this order for duty which, under the provisions of supplementary regulations prescribed hereunder, does not constitute either sea duty or duty described in sections 204 and 205 hereof.
Sec. 207. No enlisted member shall be entitled under this order to receive both sea-duty pay and pay for duty described in sections 204 and 205 hereof for the same period of time; nor sea-duty pay and credit for basic allowance for subsistence for the same period of time except periods during which messing facilities are temporarily out of operation to permit alterations or repairs and periods during which the member is on leave beyond the contiguous 48 States and the District of Columbia.
Sec. 208. The Secretaries concerned (within the meaning of section 101 (5) of title 37 of the United States Code), with respect to personnel of the uniformed services within their respective departments, are hereby authorized to prescribe such supplementary regulations, not inconsistent herewith, as they may deem necessary or desirable for carrying out these regulations, and such supplementary regulations shall be uniform for all the services to the fullest extent practicable.
Part III—Basic Allowances For Subsistence
Sec. 301. Enlisted members who are being subsisted in kind in a mess and whose duties require them to be absent from their station during one or more meals shall be entitled for each such meal to a pro-rated share of the daily basic allowance for subsistence authorized for members on duty at stations where rations in kind are not available. The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of Commerce are hereby authorized to establish the amount of the pro-rated share of the daily basic allowance for subsistence applicable to each one of the three daily meals, which amount shall be uniform for all the services concerned. The total of the amounts of the shares for the three daily meals shall not exceed the amount of the basic daily allowance for subsistence authorized by section 402 of title 37 of the United States Code.
Sec. 302. The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare with respect to the personnel of the uniformed services within their respective agencies, are hereby authorized, subject to the provisions of section 303 hereof, to prescribe such supplemental regulations, not inconsistent herewith, as they may deem necessary or desirable for carrying out the provisions of this part and of the said section 402 of title 37 of the United States Code: Provided, That such regulations shall be uniform so far as practicable for all the services concerned.
Sec. 303. As used in regulations prescribed pursuant to section 302 hereof, those terms of the said section 402 of title 37 of the United States Code which are quoted in the subsections of this section shall have the meaning or application stated with respect thereto:
(a) The term "entitled to receive basic pay" shall be considered applicable to members while they are on the active list or while they are required to perform duty in accordance with law for which they are entitled to basic pay: Provided, that such term shall not be applicable to any member while absent from duty under conditions which, under laws governing the particular service concerned, would prevent him from receiving full basic pay.
(b) The term "when rations in kind are not available" shall be considered applicable in the case of enlisted members on duty at stations where it is determined, in accordance with regulations prescribed pursuant to section 302 hereof, that it is impracticable for subsistence in kind to be furnished by the United States.
(c) The term "when permission to mess separately is granted" shall be considered applicable in the case of enlisted members on duty at stations or while sick in hospitals where a mess for subsisting enlisted members is available and when such enlisted members are authorized to subsist themselves independently. Such term shall also be considered applicable in the case of enlisted members during all periods of authorized leave, including periods of leave or delay while en route between duty stations.
(d) The term "when assigned to duty under emergency conditions where no messing facilities of the United States are available" shall be considered applicable in the case of enlisted members assigned to duty under conditions requiring extraordinary expenses for subsistence as determined in accordance with regulations prescribed pursuant to section 302 hereof.
(e) The term "being subsisted at the expense of the United States" shall be considered applicable to enlisted members who are subsisted in kind by the United States and to enlisted members while they are in a travel status and are entitled to a per-diem allowance in lieu of subsistence or to a mileage allowance.
Part IV—Basic Allowances For Quarters Sec. 401. As used in this part:
(a) The term "entitled to receive basic pay" shall apply to a member while on the active list or while required to perform duty in accordance with law for which he is entitled to basic pay: Provided, That such term shall not apply to any member while absent from duty under conditions which, under laws governing the particular service concerned, would prevent him from receiving full basic pay.
(b) The term "field duty" shall mean service by a member under orders with troops operating against an enemy, actual or potential. or service with troops on maneuvers, war games, field exercises, or similar types of operations.
(c) The term "sea duty" shall mean service performed by either officer or enlisted members under conditions for which "sea duty" pay is payable to enlisted members in accordance with section 305 of title 37 of the United States Code, and regulations issued thereunder.
(d) The term "permanent station" shall mean the place on shore where a member is assigned to duty, or the home yard or the home port of a ship in which a member is required to perform duty, under orders in each case which do not in terms provide for the termination thereof; and any station on shore or any receiving ship where a member is assigned and in fact occupies, with his dependents, if any, quarters under the jurisdiction of any of the uniformed services shall also be deemed during such occupancy to be his permanent station: Provided, That in the case of members of the National Guard, the Air National Guard or reserve components of any of the uniformed services on active duty for training, the place where the training duty is being performed shall be deemed to be the permanent station of such members for the purposes of these regulations.
Sec. 402. Except as otherwise by statute heretofore or hereafter provided, a member shall be entitled to payment of basic allowances for quarters, in accordance with these regulations and any regulations prescribed pursuant hereto, during such time or times as he is entitled to receive basic pay.
Sec. 403. Any quarters or housing facilities under the jurisdiction of any of the uniformed services in fact occupied without payment of rental charges (a) by a member and his dependents, or (b) at his permanent station by a member without dependents, or (c) by the dependents of a member on field duty or on sea duty or on duty at a station where adequate quarters are not available for his dependents, shall be deemed to have been assigned to such member as appropriate and adequate quarters, and no basic allowance for quarters shall accrue to such member under such circumstances unless the occupancy
(i) occurs while such member is in a duty or leave status incident to a change of permanent station and is of a temporary nature under standards prescribed by regulations issued by the Secretary of Defense in the case of members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps, and the reserve components thereof, or by the appropriate Secretary in the case of members of the other uniformed services, or
(ii) occurs while such member is in a leave status not incident to a change of permanent station and does not exceed seven consecutive days at one location: Provided, That occupancy of quarters under such circumstances for a period in excess of such 7-day period or such other temporary period as may be authorized under standards prescribed by regulations issued by the Secretary concerned shall not result in a forfeiture of basic allowance for quarters for such 7-day or other authorized period: Provided further, That this paragraph shall not apply to occupancy of quarters as a guest of another member.
Sec. 404. When adequate quarters for his dependents are not available for assignment at his permanent station to a member with dependents, he may occupy quarters of the United States designated for members without dependents without affecting his right to receive payment of basic allowances for quarters, if permitted or required to occupy quarters at such station. Under such circumstances, a member may not occupy quarters of the United States which exceed the minimum standards for members of his grade without dependents, as prescribed by the Secretary concerned, unless the only quarters available (a) exceed the minimum standards, and (b) are made available for joint occupancy with other members.
Sec. 405. A member away from his permanent station may occupy quarters of the United States designated for members without dependents at his temporary duty station without affecting his right to receive payment of basic allowances for quarters or assignment of quarters, it any, at his permanent station. Under such circumstances, a member may not occupy quarters of the United States which exceed the minimum standards for members of his grade without dependents, as prescribed by the Secretary concerned, unless the only quarters available (a) exceed the minimum standards, and (b) are made available for joint occupancy with other members.
Sec. 406. A member serving outside the United States, its territories, or possessions in a duty assignment which has official or diplomatic responsibilities involving officials of foreign governments may be assigned quarters in excess of the minimum standards set forth in sections 404 and 405 hereof, as prescribed by the Secretary concerned: Provided, That no such quarters shall be available on a continuous basis for single occupancy, if such quarters are otherwise adequate for assignment as family housing to members of similar rank.
Sec. 407. The Secretaries concerned (within the meaning of section 101(5) of title 37 of the United States Code), with respect to personnel of the uniformed services within their respective departments, are hereby authorized to prescribe such supplementary regulations not inconsistent herewith as they may deem necessary or desirable for carrying out these regulations, and such supplementary regulations shall be uniform for all the services to the fullest extent practicable.
Sec. 408. Unless the Secretary concerned, or his designee, determines that military operational conditions require otherwise, a commissioned officer without dependents who is in a pay grade above pay grade 0-3 and who is assigned to quarters of the United States or a housing facility under the jurisdiction of a uniformed service, appropriate to his grade or rank and adequate for himself, may elect not to occupy those quarters and instead to receive the basic allowance for quarters prescribed for his pay grade by section 403 of title 37 of the United States Code.
Part V—General Provisions
Sec. 501. For the purposes of these regulations, the terms defined in sections 101 and 401 of title 37 of the United States Code shall have the meanings prescribed therein.
Sec. 502. The following Executive orders are revoked:
(a) Executive Order No. 10119 of March 27, 1950.
(b) Executive Order No. 10152 of August 17, 1950.
(c) Executive Order No. 10168 of October 11, 1950.
(d) Executive Order No. 10204 of January 15, 1951.
(e) Executive Order No. 10605 of April 22,1955.
(f) Executive Order No. 10618 of June 28, 1955.
(g) Executive Order No. 10681 of October 22, 1956.
(h) Executive Order No. 10739 of November 15, 1957.
(i) Executive Order No. 10821 of May 20, 1959.
(j) Executive Order No. 10892 of November 8,1960.
(k) Executive Order No. 10989 of January 22, 1962.
(l) Executive Order No. 11120 of October 2, 1963.
(m) Executive Order No. 11146 of March 13, 1964.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House,
June 22, 1964