By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 the transportation industry of this Nation is essential to the maintenance of our free enterprise system and our economic capability; and 
Whereas
 transportation is a strong and vital element in the national defense posture; and 
Whereas
 it is right and proper to recognize the importance of a modern, progressive transportation system to the well-being of each and every citizen of this country; and 
Whereas
 the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 22, approved May 16, 1957 (71 Stat. 30), has requested the President to proclaim annually the third Friday of May of each year as National Defense Transportation Day, and by House Joint Resolution 628, approved May 14, 1962 (76 Stat. 69), has requested the President to proclaim annually the week in May of each year in which falls the third Friday of that month as National Transportation Week, as a tribute to the men and women who, night and day, move goods and people throughout our land: 
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate Friday, May 15, 1964, as National Defense Transportation Day, and the week beginning May 10, 1964, as National Transportation Week; and I urge our people to participate, together with the transportation industry, representatives of the armed forces, and other governmental agencies, in the observance of these occasions by appropriate ceremonies. 
I also invite the Governors of the States to provide for the observance of National Defense Transportation Day and National Transportation Week in such manner as will afford an opportunity for the citizens of each community to recognize and appreciate fully the vital role of a great modern transportation complex in their daily lives and in our national defense. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this seventeenth day of April in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-eighth. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON 
By the President: 
George W. Ball,
Acting Secretary of State.