By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
To the People of the United States: 
It becomes my sad duty to announce officially the death of Herbert Hoover, the thirty-first President of the United States, on the twentieth day of October, nineteen hundred and sixty-four, at 11:35 o'clock in the morning. 
Mr. Hoover's service to our country, spanning a period of nearly a half century, was marked by a signal honesty of purpose, a devotion to fundamental principles of ethical conduct, and a deep concern for the welfare of all of his fellow men. Among the rich products of his efforts have been the advancement of the cause of peace, the strengthening of our bonds with other nations, the enrichment of the lives of millions of human beings around the world, and a vital improvement of the operation of this Government. His patriotism knew no partisanship. 
A gentle and tolerant man, Mr. Hoover will be long remembered for his humanitarianism, his genuine humility coupled with a determined courage, and the strength of the faith which motivated his actions. He has earned the abiding respect and affection of the people of this Nation and of other nations throughout the world. 
We in this country will be joined by his many friends abroad in mourning the death of this truly dedicated American. But we can take comfort in the inspiring legacy of ideals and example of devotion which he has bequeathed to us all. 
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, in honor and tribute to the memory of this great and good man, and as an expression of the public sorrow, do hereby direct that the flag of the United States be displayed at half-staff at the White House and on all buildings, grounds, and naval vessels of the United States for a period of thirty days. I also direct that for the same length of time the representatives of the United States in foreign countries shall make similar arrangements for the display of the flag at half-staff over their embassies, legations, and other facilities abroad, including all military facilities and stations. 
I hereby order that suitable honors be rendered by units of the armed forces under orders of the Secretary of Defense on the day of the funeral. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this twentieth day of October in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-ninth. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON 
By the President:
DEAN RUSK
Secretary of State