By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, and as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
Prior order. The numbered Sections of Executive Order 10879 of June 1, 1960, are hereby amended to read as follows:
"1. Certificate established. The White House Service Certificate is hereby reestablished as the Presidential Service Certificate, to be awarded in the name of the President of the United States to members of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and the Air Force, who have been assigned to the White House for a period of at least one year subsequent to January 20, 1961.
"2. Award of the Certificate. The Presidential Service Certificate, the design of which accompanies and is hereby made a part of this Order, shall be awarded by the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Navy, or the Secretary of the Air Force, to military personnel of their respective services.
"3. Badge established. The White House Service Badge is replaced by the Presidential Service Badge, the design of which accompanies and is hereby made a part of this Order. The Presidential Service Badge may be awarded to any member of the Armed Forces assigned to duty in the White House by the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Navy, or the Secretary of the Air Force, upon recommendation of the Presidential Military, Naval, or Air Force Aide, as the case may be, to military personnel of their respective services. The Badge may be worn as a part of the uniform of those individuals upon award of the Presidential Service Certificate under such regulations as the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Navy, and the Secretary of the Air Force, with the approval of the Secretary of Defense may severally prescribe.
"4. Only one Presidential Service Certificate will be awarded to an individual during an administration. Only one Presidential Service Badge will be awarded.
"5. The Presidential Service Certificate and the Presidential Service Badge established by this Order may be granted posthumously."
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House,
September 1, 1964.