By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
We have long been accustomed to the enrichment of our lives by photography. Photography gives us remembrances of our loved ones, records of today's events as they become tomorrow's history and art forms which enrich our culture. Familiar, too, is photography's contribution in the laboratory, the hospital, and the classroom. 
In all of these traditional areas, the work of professional photographers has been recognized and accepted. Less well known, however, is the contribution of professional photography to our country's economy. 
More than 150,000 men and women are engaged in professional photography. In industry and commerce, professional photography makes an increasingly important contribution to product design, research, manufacture, the promotion of safety, and the marketing of products. On our farms, in our courts; and in the world of nature, professional photography has increased our knowledge and our understanding. 
With the broadening of man's horizons through recent scientific achievements, we are coming to a fuller realization of the importance of photography. Professional photography plays a vital part in scientific advances as we search into the little known world of outer space and delve farther into the ocean's depths. 
As a tribute to the professional photographer and in recognition of the importance of professional photography in our life today and in America's future, the Congress by a point resolution approved March 29, 1965, has requested the President to issue a proclamation designating the week beginning May 2 through May 8, 1965, as Professional Photography Week. 
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week of May 2 through May 8, 1965, as Professional Photography Week, and I call upon the people of the United States to observe that week with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this twenty-ninth day of March in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-ninth. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON 
By the President: 
DEAN RUSK, 
Secretary of State.