WHEREAS, on March 20, 1965, I issued proclamation No. 3645, pursuant in part to the provisions of Section 334 of Title 10, United States Code; and
WHEREAS, the likelihood of domestic violence and obstruction of the execution and enforcement of the laws of the United States referred to therein continues:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, including Chapter 15 of Title 10 of the United States Code, particularly Sections 332, 333, and 334 thereof, and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. The Secretary of Defense is authorized and directed, for the period commencing with the signing of this order and ending as soon as practicable after the termination of the march referred to in the above-mentioned proclamation, to take all appropriate steps, including the provision of assistance to the law enforcement agencies of the State or Alabama, to remove obstructions to the execution and enforcement of the laws of the United States in that state, including the order of the court referred to in the above-mentioned proclamation, and to suppress domestic violence in any way related to the said march.
Sec. 2. In furtherance of the authorization and direction contained in Section 1 hereof, the Secretary of Defense is authorized to use such of the Armed Forces of the United States as he may deem necessary.
Sec. 3. I hereby authorize and direct the Secretary of Defense to call into the active military service of the United States, as he may deem appropriate to carry out the purposes of this order, any or all of the units or members of the Army National Guard and of the Air National Guard of the State of Alabama to serve in the active military service of the United States until relieved by appropriate orders. The Secretary of Defense is further authorized to recall any unit or member so relieved if he deems such recall appropriate to carry out the purposes of this order. In carrying out the provisions of Section 1, the Secretary of Defense is authorized to use the units, and members thereof, called or recalled into the active military services of the United States pursuant to this section.
Sec. 4. The Secretary of Defense is authorized to delegate to the Secretary of the Army or the Secretary of the Air Force, or both, any of the authority conferred upon him by this order.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
March 20, 1965
1:30 a.m.
The White House