By virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 2 of the Civil Service Act (22 Stat. 403) and Section 1753 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (5 U.S.C. 631) and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows—
Section 1. Any employee of the Treasury Department serving under an appointment under Schedule B of the Civil Service Rules in a position concerned with the protection of the life and safety of the President, members of his immediate family, or other persons for whom similar protective services are provided by law (which responsibility is hereinafter referred to as the protective function) may have his appointment converted to a career appointment if:
(1) he has completed at least three years of full-time continuous service in a position concerned with the protective function;
(2) the Secretary of the Treasury, or his designee, recommends the conversion of the employee's appointment within 90 days after the employee meets the service requirements of this section, or within 90 days after the date of this Order, whichever is later;
(3) he shall have passed a competitive examination appropriate for the position he is occupying or meets noncompetitive examination standards the Civil Service Commission prescribes for his position; and
(4) he meets all other requirements prescribed by the Commission pursuant to Section 5 of this Order.
Sec. 2. For the purposes of Section 1—
(1) "full-time continuous service" means service without a break of more than 30 calendar days;
(2) except as provided in paragraph (3) of this section, active service in the Armed Forces of the United States shall be deemed to be fulltime continuous service in a position concerned with the protective function if the employee concerned shall have left a position concerned with the protective function to enter the Armed Forces and shall have been re-employed in a position concerned with the protective function within 120 days after he shall have been discharged from the Armed Forces under honorable conditions; and
(3) active service in the Armed Forces shall not be deemed to be full-time continuous service in a position concerned with the protective function if such active service exceeds a total of four years plus any period of additional service imposed pursuant to law.
Sec. 3. Any employee who shall have left a position concerned with the protective function to enter active service in the Armed Forces of the United States, who is re-employed in such a position within 120 days after his discharge under honorable conditions from such service, and who meets the requirements of Section 1 as the result of being credited with his period of active service in the Armed Forces pursuant to Section 2(2), may have his appointment converted if the Secretary of the Treasury, or his designee, recommends that conversion within 90 days after his re-employment.
Sec. 4. Whenever the Secretary of the Treasury, or his designee, decides not to recommend conversion of the appointment of an employee under this Order or whenever the Secretary, or his designee, recommends conversion and the employee fails to qualify, the employee shall be separated by the date on which his current Schedule B appointment expires.
Sec. 5. The Civil Service Commission shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this Order.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House,
March 12, 1965.