By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The Congress of the United States has set aside the first day of May of each year as Law Day, U.S.A., an occasion for the American people to rededicate themselves to our Nation's ideals of equality and justice under law and to our responsibilities as free men. 
There is a timely need for such rededication. The Nation's efforts to advance freedom and individual opportunity, to curb lawlessness, and to achieve equal justice for all citizens are urgent concerns of every American. 
Law Day, U.S.A., reminds us of the fundamental truth that our very lives, our liberty, and our rights to pursue our individual destinies are dependent upon our system of law and independent courts. Obedience to the laws which protect these rights is the heart of our system. Disrespect for law, intolerance, and public apathy concerning law enforcement are enemies of justice and freedom. 
The observance of Law Day, U.S.A., on May 1, 1965, with the theme, "Uphold the Law-A Citizen's First Duty," will serve to focus attention on the fact that every citizen can help strengthen our national commitment to the rule of law. Every American can contribute to an orderly, lawful society by personal compliance with the laws, by recognizing the rights of others, by teaching respect for law in the home, by supporting and aiding the agencies of law enforcement, and by serving on a jury or giving testimony in court when called. 
Law Day, U.S.A., is an appropriate occasion for each of us to commit himself to the fulfillment of these responsibilities of citizenship. 
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby request that the people of our land observe Saturday, May 1, 1965, with suitable programs and ceremonies, as Law Day, U.S.A. I urge that schools, churches, civic and service organizations, public bodies, courts, the legal profession, and the media of information participate in this educational and patriotic undertaking. I call upon public officials to display the Nation's flag on public buildings on that day as requested by the Congress. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this seventh day of January in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-five and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-ninth. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON 
By the President: 
DEAN RUSK, 
Secretary of State.