By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 the Act of June 30, 1944, entitled "An Act to implement the jurisdiction of service courts of friendly foreign forces within the United States, and for other purposes" (58 Stat. 643; 22 U.S.C. 701-706), provides in part as follows:
"Sec. 6. This Act shall be operative with respect to the military, naval, or air force of any foreign state only after a finding and declaration by the President that the powers and privileges provided herein are necessary for the maintenance of discipline. The President may at any time revoke such finding and declaration." 
Whereas
 there are within the United States military, naval, or air forces of Australia; 
Whereas
 the Government of Australia has made known its desire to exercise within the United States jurisdiction over offenses committed by members of their respective military, naval, or air forces; and 
Whereas
 the Australian Government has recognized the right of the United States military authorities to exercise jurisdiction over certain offenses committed by members of the United States armed forces in Australian territory and are undertaking to make available appropriate facilities for the effective exercise of such jurisdiction: 
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 6 of the Act of June 30, 1944, do find and declare that the powers and privileges provided in that Act to implement the jurisdiction of courts martial or other military tribunals of friendly foreign forces within the United States are necessary for the maintenance of discipline of the military, naval, or air forces of Australia within the United States.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this tenth day of October in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninetieth. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON 
By the President: 
DEAN RUSK 
Secretary of State