By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment of Commission, (a) There is hereby established the President's Commission on Crime in the District of Columbia (hereafter referred to as the "Commission").
(b) The Commission shall be composed of such members as the President shall appoint, one of whom shall be designated by the President as the Chairman. The members and the Chairman shall serve at the pleasure of the President.
Sec. 2. Functions of Commission, (a) The Commission shall inquire into the following matters in the District of Columbia and make such studies, conduct such hearings, and request such information as it deems appropriate for this purpose:
(1) The causes of crime and delinquency and measures for their prevention.
(2) The organization and adequacy of law enforcement and the administration of justice.
(3) The correction and rehabilitation of offenders, particularly first offenders.
(4) The adequacy and effectiveness of the criminal laws.
(5) The relationships between police authorities and the citizenry in the various sections of Washington and the relationships between police authorities and public or private agencies providing welfare or similar services.
(6) Such other matters as the Commission may determine to be relevant to the prevention and control of crime and the achievement of fair and effective law enforcement.
(b) The Commission shall develop standards and make recommendations for:
(1) Increasing the level of education and training of police personnel and the qualifications necessary for appointment to the police force.
(2) Improving the organization and techniques of the police force and providing it with the best equipment and facilities available.
(3) Educating the community at large to the problems encountered by the police and other law enforcement authorities, promoting respect for law and achieving community involvement in the field of law enforcement.
(4) Coordinating the programs and activities of the police force and those of appropriate public and private organizations.
(5) Promoting better public understanding of the causes of crime, and of the means, in addition to law enforcement activities, of preventing and controlling crime.
(6) Improving the methods used in the correction and rehabilitation of offenders.
(7) Devising programs, through new agencies or otherwise, for the disposition of cases of various kinds of misconduct by means alternative to criminal trials.
(8) Expediting the handling of criminal cases, at every stage from arrest to completion of trial.
(9) Revising the criminal laws.
(10) Carrying out other programs and activities designed to prevent and control crime or to achieve fair and effective law enforcement.
Sec. 3. Liaison and Coordination. The Attorney General, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, the Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity, and the Board of Commissioners of the District of Columbia each shall designate a representative to serve with the Commission as liaison. All departments and agencies of the Federal Government and the District of Columbia shall cooperate with the Commission and furnish it such information and assistance, not inconsistent with law, as it may require in the performance of its functions and duties. The Commission shall establish liaison and cooperate with any similar body constituted to study law enforcement and the administration of justice throughout the Nation, and shall consult, as may be appropriate, with members of the Federal and District of Columbia judiciary and their assistants concerning matters of common interest.
Sec. 4. Task Forces. (a) The Chairman of the Commission, after consultation with the other members, and at such times as the Commission may deem appropriate, shall constitute task forces composed of persons who are authorities in professional or technical fields related to crime or juvenile delinquency, or persons representative of the general public who are leaders in activities concerned with crime or juvenile delinquency. The task forces, and persons who are members, shall serve at the pleasure of the Commission.
(b) The task forces shall furnish the Commission information, advice and recommendations with respect to the functions set forth in section 2 of this order and shall engage in such other activities as the Commission may deem appropriate.
Sec. 5. Personnel and Administration, (a) The Commission is authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of an executive secretary and such other personnel as may be necessary to enable it to carry out its functions.
(b) Members of the Commission may be allowed travel expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 73b-2) for persons serving without compensation.
(c) The Commission is authorized to obtain services, including the services of individuals as members of task forces, in accordance with the provisions of section 15 of the Act of August 2, 1946 (5 U.S.C. 55a), at rates for individuals not to exceed $100 per diem.
(d) The General Services Administration shall provide administrative services for the Commission on a reimbursable basis.
(e) All necessary expenses incurred in connection with the work of the Commission shall be paid from the "Special Projects" fund of the President or such other funds as may be available for the purposes of the Commission.
Sec. 8. Reports and Termination of Commission. The Commission shall make reports and recommendations to the President from time to time as it deems suitable and shall present a final report and recommendations not later than one year from the date of this order. The Commission shall terminate not later than sixty days after presenting such final report and recommendations.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House,
July 16, 1965.