By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
On this Memorial Day, May 30, we will pay homage to our honored dead who gave their lives that this county might live in peace and freedom. Their numbers are legion, their deeds valorous, their memories hallowed. 
They fought in the valleys of Pennsylvania, in the trenches at Verdun, and in the foxholes at Guadalcanal. Now America's sons are again making the highest sacrifice to protect for this and future generations the liberty won in past struggles. 
Man possesses now the capacity to end war and preserve peace. We are able to eliminate poverty and share abundance, to overcome disease and illiteracy, and to bring to all our fellow citizens the fulfillment of their dream of a better life. We have the means to achieve these victories; now we need only the will. 
We are a people with an abiding faith in a merciful God and in His goodness. It is not only fitting but necessary that we seek His guidance and help in the pursuit of these tasks. 
For this purpose the Congress, in a joint resolution approved May 11, 1950 (64 Stat. 158), requested the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United States to observe each Memorial Day as a day of prayer for permanent peace: 
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate Memorial Day, Sunday, May 30, 1965, as a day of prayer for permanent peace, and I call upon the people of the Nation to pray for a lasting peace in which all mankind may reap the fruits of His blessing. 
I designate the hour beginning in each locality at eleven o'clock in the morning of that day as the time for all Americans to join in prayer. I also urge the press, radio, television, and all other media of information to cooperate in this observance. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this fifteenth day of May in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-ninth. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON 
By the President: 
GEORGE W. BALL, 
Acting Secretary of State.