By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
As a nation and as a people, world peace is our fixed star and our first goal. As a symbol of our devotion to this objective, the Congress of the United States has set apart the eleventh of November as a legal holiday, to be known as Veterans Day and to be dedicated to the cause of world peace (Act of May 13, 1938, 52 Stat. 351, as amended (5 U.S.C. 87a)).
On this day, we pay deserved honor to the millions of our fellow citizens who have served in the armed forces of our country in times of war and of conflict and, in grateful appreciation of their devotion and sacrifice, we give outward expression to our deep seated desire for world peace. Our observance of this day serves to remind us that it is by our deeds and not by our words that we can and will lead the rest of the world in the cause of freedom and peace.
We must never forget that it is not enough just to want peace or to talk peace or to hope for peace. We must constantly work for peace. Exerting our own best efforts and working together with other nations, we can and will build an order of world peace which will endure for generations.
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, call upon all the people of our Nation to observe Thursday, November 11, 1965, as Veterans Day, commemorating the service of our war veterans and showing our continued dedication to the cause of world peace and the establishment of a world community in which every nation can follow its own course without fear of its neighbors.
I direct the appropriate officials of the Government to arrange for the display of the flag of the United States on all public buildings on Veterans Day. Also, in order that this day may be marked with suitable exercises and public ceremonies throughout our Nation, I request the officials of the Federal and State Governments and of civic and patriotic organizations to give their enthusiastic support to the Veterans Day National Committee.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this thirtieth day of September in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninetieth.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON 
By the President: 
Secretary of State