By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 December 10, 1965, is the 17th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which voices. the aspirations of all mankind, and December 15, 1965, is the 174th anniversary of the first ten Amendments to the Constitution of the United States, which we honor as our Bill of Rights ; and
Whereas
 the Universal Declaration is a further recognition of the great principles of freedom of speech, press, and assembly, of freedom of religion and conscience, of assurance of fair trial, and of the right to participate in government—all rights which are guaranteed by the Constitution of the United States; and
Whereas
 people everywhere in the world find common cause in the demand for more effective recognition—in law and in practice—of the inalienable right of every person to equal dignity and equal opportunity; and
Whereas
 our American heritage has found further expression in our own country through the adoption of new legislation for the protection of civil rights, for the guarantee of voting rights, and for the extension of economic opportunity to those who have not shared equally in the prosperity and promise of our time:
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim December 10, 1965, as Human Rights Day and December 15, 1965, as Bill of Rights Day, and call upon the people of the United States to observe the week of December 10-17 as Human Rights Week.
Let us never forget the words cast on the big bell at Independence Hall, "Proclaim Liberty throughout the land and unto all the inhabitants thereof."
The Congress of the United States, our Executive Departments, the Courts, and men and women of good will throughout the land are daily demonstrating their determination that no one shall be denied enjoyment of his rights or equal opportunity to rise as far as his abilities will take him.
During this Human Rights Week, let us pause to reaffirm the ideals and principles which have been at the foundation of our country's growth and greatness—ideals which have stirred the minds and hearts of men from time immemorial, and which take on new power and promise for all peoples in this splendid age of scientific and cultural achievement.
Let each of us, in daily life, do what he can to make this a truly just and compassionate nation, remembering that as we work for freedom here—freedom from discrimination, freedom from ignorance, from poverty, from all that makes for fear and prejudice—we work not only for ourselves but for all mankind.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this second day of December in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninetieth.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON 
By the President: 
Secretary of State