By virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Definitions. As used in this order:
(a) The term "the Act" means the Communications Satellite Act of 1962 (76 Stat. 419), and includes, except as may for any reason be inappropriate, that Act as amended from time to time.
(b) The term "the Corporation" means the Communications Satellite Corporation (incorporated on February 1, 1963, under title III of the Act and under the District of Columbia Business Corporation Act).
(c) The term "the Director" means the Director of Telecommunications Management provided for in Executive Order No. 10995 of February 16, 1962.
(d) The term "the Secretary" means the Secretary of State or his designees.
Sec. 2. Director of Telecommunications Management, (a) Subject to the provisions of this order, the Director shall generally advise and assist the President in connection with the functions conferred upon the President by the provisions of Section 201(a) of the Act.
(b) The Director shall:
(1) Aid in the planning and development, and aid in fostering the execution, of a national program for the establishment and operation, as« expeditiously as possible, of a commercial communications satellite system.
(2) Conduct a continuous review of all phases of the development and operation of such a system, including the activities of the Corporation.
(3) Coordinate the activities of governmental agencies with responsibilities in the field of telecommunication, so as to insure that there is full and effective compliance at all times with the policies set forth in the Act.
(4) Make recommendations to the President and others as appropriate, with respect to all steps necessary to insure the availability and appropriate utilization of the communications satellite system for general Government purposes in consonance with Section 201(a)(6) of the Act.
(5) Help attain coordinated and efficient use of the electromagnetic spectrum and the technical compatibility of the communications satellite system with existing communications facilities both in the United States and abroad.
(6) Prepare, for consideration by the President, such Presidential action documents as may be appropriate under Section 201(a) of the Act, make necessary recommendations to the President in connection therewith, and keep the President currently informed with respect to the carrying out of the Act.
(7) Serve as the chief point of liaison between the President and the Corporation.
Sec. 3. Secretary of State. (a) The Secretary shall exercise the supervision provided for in Section 201(a)(4) of the Act and, in consonance with Section 201(a) (5) of the Act, shall further timely arrangements for foreign participation in the establishment and use of a communications satellite system.
(b) The Secretary shall have direction of the foreign relations of the United States with respect to the Act, including all negotiations by the United States with foreign governments or with international bodies in connection with the Act.
Sec. 4. Annual reports, The Director shall timely submit to the President each year the report (including evaluations and recommendations) provided for in Section 404(a) of the Act.
Sec. 5. Assistance and Cooperation. The Director and the Secretary shall effect such mutual coordination, and all other federal agencies concerned, and the Corporation, shall furnish the Director and the Secretary such assistance and documents, and shall otherwise extend to them such cooperation, as will enable the Director and the Secretary properly to carry out their responsibilities under this order and best promote the implementation of the Act in an orderly and expeditious manner. In connection with his responsibilities under section 3 of this order, the Secretary shall consult with the Director and other federal officers concerned, and, as may be appropriate, with the Corporation.
Sec. 6. Functions reserved. The functions, or parts of functions, conferred upon the President by the Act that are not assigned herein are reserved to the President.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House,
January 4, 1965.