By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
For one hundred seventy-eight years the Constitution of the United States has been the symbol of man's capacity to govern himself. 
It has fostered government of, by, and for the people. 
From its wisdom have flowed growing concepts of liberty, justice, and human dignity. 
We owe it our freedom, past, present-and future. 
For the Constitution is a living document. It is as relevant today as on September 17, 1787. It endowed us with a concept of government and a charter of liberty that combine the wisdom of the ages with the urgency of the nuclear age. 
The Constitution is still the certain guarantee of our basic rights. 
It is still the promise of protection from government-and by government. 
But liberty is a blessing that must be constantly nurtured. In this rapidly changing world every American must understand the system of government by which we live-and for which so many have died. 
I call on all our people to rededicate themselves to those common purposes for which the Constitution was established: 
"* * * to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity * * *" 
In order to commemorate the formation and signing, on September 17, 1787, of the Constitution and to pay special recognition to all persons who, by coming of age or by naturalization, shall have attained the status of citizenship during each year, the Congress enacted the Joint Resolution of February 29, 1952 (66 Stat. 9), designating September 17 of each year as "Citizenship Day." Further, the Congress enacted the Joint Resolution of August 2, 1956 (70 Stat. 932) requesting the President to designate the week beginning September 17 of each year as "Constitution Week." In those resolutions the Congress called upon the President to urge the American people to observe those events each year with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, call upon the appropriate officials of the Government to display the flag of the United States on all Government buildings on Citizenship Day, September 17, 1965; and I urge Federal, State, and local officials, as well as all religious, civic, educational, and other organizations, to hold appropriate ceremonies on that day to inspire all our citizens to pledge themselves, anew to the service of their country and to the support and defense of the Constitution. 
I also designate the period beginning September 17 and ending September 23, 1965, as Constitution Week; and I urge the people of the United States to observe that week with appropriate ceremonies and activities in their schools and churches and in other suitable places to the end that our citizens may have a better understanding of the Constitution and of the rights and responsibilities of United States Citizenship. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this twenty-sixth day of June in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-ninth. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON 
By the President: 
DEAN RUSK, 
Secretary of State.