By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
"Liberty lies in the hearts of men and women; when it dies there, no constitution, no law, no court can save it; no constitution, no law, no court can even do much to help it. * * * the spirit of liberty is the spirit of Him who, near two thousand years ago, taught mankind that lesson it has never learned, but has never quite forgotten; that there may be a kingdom where the least shall be heard and considered side by side with the greatest."
These words of a great American jurist, the late Judge Learned Hand, are especially appropriate this year as the United States of America celebrates the one hundred and seventy-fifth anniversary of the Bill of Rights, and the one hundred and ninetieth anniversary of the independence of our Nation. Both occasions are notable milestones in the life of our republic and in man's quest for freedom and justice under law.
These two significant events in American history serve to remind us that the great individual rights we value so highly carry with them corresponding obligations of citizenship: to obey the law—recognize the rights of others—resolve grievances by lawful means—support law enforcement agencies—encourage law obedience by others—practice and teach patriotism—and defend our country.
The fostering of greater respect for the rule of law, and of deeper understanding of our great heritage of individual liberty, will immeasurably aid the United States in its war on crime and juvenile delinquency.
The Congress by joint resolution has wisely designated the first day of May of each year as Law Day, U.S.A., to remind us of the fundamental truth that our liberty, our rights to pursue our individual destinies, and our very lives are dependent upon our system of law and independent courts. Only under the rule of law, and obedience thereto, can we rightfully claim our heritage of individual freedom.
The observance of Law Day, U.S.A., on May 1, 1966, with the theme, "Respect the Law—It Respects You," will serve to focus attention on the need for every individual to do his part to help strengthen our national commitment to the rule of law.
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby request the observance of Sunday, May 1, 1966, as Law Day in the United States of America.
I urge clergymen of all faiths to bring to public attention through sermons and appropriate programs the indissoluble links that exist between religion and the law and America's heritage of religious and individual freedom under law resulting from this bond.
I urge also that Law Day, U.S.A. be observed with suitable programs and ceremonies; and that schools, civic and service organizations, public bodies, courts, the legal profession, and the media of information and entertainment participate in this educational and patriotic undertaking. I call upon public officials to display the Nation's flag on public buildings on that day as requested by the Congress.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this eighth day of December in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-five and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninetieth.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON 
By the President: 
DEAN RUSK
Secretary of State