By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States and pursuant to Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1958 (72 Stat. 1799), it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Scope. (a) The Attorney General shall prepare national emergency plans and develop preparedness programs covering law-enforcement functions of concern to the executive branch of the Federal Government except to the extent that such functions are vested in other departments or agencies by statute or Executive order. Upon request, the Attorney General shall assist, as appropriate, in developing preparedness programs covering law-enforcement functions vested in other departments and agencies of the executive branch. He shall also provide, as appropriate, liaison with and guidance and assistance to the various divisions of State and local government, and maintain liaison with the Federal judicial system and the United States Congress as hereinafter set forth.
(b) These plans and programs shall be designed to develop a state of readiness in these areas with respect to all conditions of national emergency, including an attack upon the United States.
SEC. 2. Basic Functions. The Attorney General shall:
(a) Emergency documents and measures. Provide advice, as appropriate, with respect to any emergency directive or procedure prepared by a department or agency as a part of its emergency preparedness function.
(b) Industry support. As appropriate, review the legal procedures developed by the Federal agencies concerned to be instituted if it becomes necessary for the Government to institute extraordinary measures with respect to vital production facilities, public facilities, communications systems, transportation systems, or other facility, system, or service essential to national survival. 1455
(c) Judicial and legislative liaison. In cooperation with the Office of Emergency Planning, maintain liaison with Federal courts and with the Congress so there will be mutual understanding of Federal emergency plans involving law enforcement and the exercise of legal powers during emergencies of various magnitudes.
(d) Legal advice. Develop emergency plans for providing legal advice to the President, the Cabinet, and the heads of Executive departments and agencies wherever they may be located in an emergency, and provide emergency procedures for the review as to form and legality of Presidential proclamations, Executive orders, directives, regulations, and documents and of other documents requiring approval by the President or by the Attorney General which may be issued by authorized officers after an armed attack.
(e) Alien control and control of entry and departure. Develop emergency plans for the control of alien enemies and other aliens within the United States and, in consultation with the Department of the Treasury, develop emergency plans for the control of persons attempting to enter or leave the United States. These plans shall specifically include provisions for the following:
(1) The location, restraint, or custody of alien enemies.
(2) Temporary detention of alien enemies and other persons attempting to enter the United States pending determination of their admissibility.
(3) Apprehension of deserting alien crewmen and stowaways.
(4) Investigation and control of aliens admitted as contract laborers.
(5) Control of persons entering or departing from the United States at designated ports of entry.
(6) Increased surveillance of the borders to preclude prohibited crossings by persons.
(f) Alien property. Develop emergency plans for the seizure and administration of property of alien enemies under provisions of the Trading with the Enemy Act.
(g) Security standards. In consultation with the Department of Defense and with other executive agencies to the extent appropriate, prepare plans for adjustment of security standards governing the employment of Federal personnel and Federal contractors in an emergency.
(h) Research. Within the framework of overall Federal research objectives, supervise or conduct research in areas directly concerned with carrying out emergency preparedness responsibilities, designate representatives for necessary ad hoc or task-force groups, and provide advice and assistance to other agencies in planning for research in areas involving the interests of the Department of Justice.
SEC. 3. Civil Defense. In consonance with national civil defense programs developed by the Department of Defense, the Attorney General shall:
(a) Local law enforcement. Upon request, consult with and assist the Department of Defense to plan, develop, and distribute materials for use in the instruction and training of law-enforcement personnel for civil defense emergency operations; develop and carry out a national plan for civil defense instruction and training for enforcement officers, designed to utilize to the maximum extent practicable the resources and facilities of existing Federal, State, and local police schools, academies, and other appropriate institutions of learning; and assist the States in preparing for the conduct of intrastate and interstate law-enforcement operations to meet the extraordinary needs that would exist for emergency police services under conditions of attack or imminent attack.
(b) Penal and correctional institutions. Develop emergency plans and procedures for the custody and protection of prisoners and the use of Federal penal and correctional institutional resources, when available, for cooperation with local authorities in connection with mass feeding and housing, for the storage of standby emergency equipment, for the emergency use of prison hospitals and laboratory facilities, for the continued availability of prison-industry products, and for the development of Federal prisoner skills to appropriately augment the total supply of manpower; advise States and their political subdivisions regarding the use of State and local prisons, jails, and prisoners for the purpose of relieving local situations and conditions arising from a state of emergency.
(c) Identification and location of persons. Develop emergency plans and procedures for the use of the facilities and personnel of the Department of Justice in assisting the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare with the development of plans and procedures for the identification of the dead and the reuniting of families during a civil defense emergency.
SEC. 4. Interagency Cooperation. Unless otherwise provided in this order, the Attorney General shall assume the initiative in developing joint plans for emergency preparedness functions described in this order in consultation with those departments and agencies which have responsibilities for any segment of such activities.
SEC. 5. Presidential Coordination. The Director of the Office of Emergency Planning shall advise and assist the President in determining policy for, and assist him in coordinating the performance of, functions under this order with the total national preparedness program.
SEC. 6. Emergency Planning. Emergency plans and programs shall be developed as an integral part of the continuing activities of the Department of Justice on the basis that it will have the responsibility for carrying out such programs during an emergency. The Attorney General shall be prepared to implement all appropriate plans developed under this order. Modifications, based on emergency conditions, will be in accordance with policy determinations by the President.
SEC. 7. Emergency Actions. Nothing in this order shall be construed as conferring authority under Title III of the Federal Civil Defense Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 2291-2297), or otherwise, to put into effect any emergency plan, procedure, policy, program, or course of action prepared or developed pursuant to this order. Such authority is reserved to the President.
SEC. 8. Redelegation. The Attorney General is hereby authorized to redelegate within the Department of Justice the functions hereinabove assigned to him.
SEC. 9. Construction. Nothing in this order shall be deemed to derogate from any now-existing assignment of functions to any Executive agency or officer made by statute or by Executive order.
SEC. 10. General. To the extent of any inconsistency between the provisions of any prior order and the provisions of this order, the latter shall control.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House,
October 11, 1966.