By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
The productivity of our farms and the variety of goods and services that flow from our cities are jointly responsible for our flourishing national economy.
This industry and efficiency of our farm and city workers resulted in a gross national product last year of $681 billion—a gross national product the yearly growth of which surpasses the entire national production of most other nations.
This economic progress, together with our population growth, will speed the inevitable intermingling of our towns and cities.
The challenges which will confront our people who live in the cities and those who live in the country will become more interrelated than ever before.
It is important that all our people dedicate themselves to the task of assuring that these changes in our rural and urban structure bring about a level of social and economic development commensurate with the potential of this Nation. Only in this way can we realize the hopes and advance the well-being of all our citizens and help others who are struggling for a better life in other parts of the world.
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week of November 18 through November 24, 1966, as National Farm-City Week, and call upon citizens throughout the Nation to participate in observance of that week.
I request that leaders of farmers' organizations, business groups and labor unions, youth and women's clubs, civic associations, and all consumers join in this observance to increase public appreciation of the strong interests shared by rural and urban Americans.
I urge the Department of Agriculture, land-grant colleges and universities, the cooperative extension service, and all appropriate Government officials to cooperate with national, State, and local organizations in carrying out programs to observe National Farm-City Week, including public meetings and exhibits, and press, radio, and television features.
I urge that such programs emphasize:
—the growing interrelationship between rural and urban areas.
—the need for finding still better ways of using our rural and urban land resources.
—the national endeavor now moving forward with growing momentum to create a better total environment for all our citizens by opening the doors of opportunities to Americans wherever they live, and by removing the causes of poverty and ignorance.
—the importance of continuing to revitalize and beautify both countryside and city.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this twenty-fifth day of August in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-first.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
By the President:
DEAN RUSK
Secretary of State