By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
Advances in medical technology have extended man's capacities, freeing him from many of the limitations caused by disability. The modern miracles wrought by medical science are permitting physically and mentally handicapped persons to devote more of their energy to pursuits which mark their humanity.
From the very beginning, man's pursuit of the means of earning a living has occupied a significant portion of his available time; his dependence on work has not been diminished by technological progress. Work continues to be indispensable to his security, well-being, and growth. This is no less true for those of our people who—although disabled—seek an outlet for expression and self-respect through suitable employment.
Our society has blossomed because it offers to all the hope of achieving the fullness of life. We cannot afford to isolate the handicapped from this high purpose, or stifle the fulfillment of their legitimate desires. If our Nation is to continue to prosper, we must utilize the abilities of every citizen without distinction. Let us not ignore, in our search for skilled and able workers, the demonstrated abilities of the handicapped, however severe their disabilities. Let us not throw up thoughtless barriers which prevent them from contributing their share to society.
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, in consonance with the joint resolution of Congress approved August 11, 1945 (59 Stat. 530), designating the first full week of October of each year as National Employ the Physically Handicapped Week, do hereby call upon the people of our Nation to observe the week beginning October 2, 1966, for such purpose.
During that week, I urge all public and private organizations and all citizens to make this theme—employ the handicapped—a living reality. Let us take all necessary steps to provide the handicapped with a wide range of meaningful opportunities and a life of dignity. Let us find ways to employ the skills and abilities which so many handicapped Americans possess and long to share.
I urge all the Governors of States, mayors of cities, and other public officials, as well as leaders of industry, educational and religious groups, labor, civic, veterans', agricultural, women's, scientific, professional, and fraternal organizations, and all other interested organizations and individuals, including the handicapped themselves, to participate in this observance.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this eighteenth day of August in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-first.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
By the President: 
George W. Ball 
Acting Secretary of State