WHEREAS the development of our Nation's agricultural and rural areas has undergone radical changes due to technological advancement and the increasing urbanization of the Nation's society and economy; and
WHEREAS the living standards and welfare of the rural area population depend upon a successful accommodation to these changes; and
WHEREAS Congress has vested responsibilities in the Secretary of Agriculture for the administration of numerous programs aimed at the achievement of sound agricultural and rural development; and
WHEREAS such programs are closely interrelated with important programs and activities administered by other Federal departments and agencies, which affect agricultural and rural area development; and
WHEREAS the President has directed the Secretary of Agriculture to put the facilities of Department of Agriculture field offices at the disposal of all Federal agencies to assist them in making their programs effective in rural areas, and jointly with the Director of the Bureau of the Budget to review with the head of each department or agency the administrative obstacles which may stand in the way of equitable distribution in rural areas of the benefits of their programs and to propose administrative or legislative steps which can be taken to assure that equity is attained to assure full participation by rural areas; and
WHEREAS the highest level of coordination is required between the Department of Agriculture and such other Federal departments and agencies in order to achieve the maximum beneficial impact on agricultural and rural area development:
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION I. Responsibilities of the Secretary. (a)
The Secretary of Agriculture shall take the initiative in identifying problems of agricultural and rural area development which require the cooperation of various Federal departments and agencies for their effective solution, and pursuant thereto shall convene, or authorize his representatives to convene, meetings at appropriate times and places, to which he shall invite the heads of such departments and agencies as may be responsible for interrelated programs or activities, or representatives designated by them, for the following purposes:
(1) To provide a forum for consideration of mutual problems concerning Federal programs and activities affecting agricultural and rural area development and for the exchange of information needed to achieve coordination of, and to avoid duplication in, such programs and activities.
(2) To promote cooperation among Federal departments and agencies in achieving consistent policies, practices, and procedures for administration of their programs affecting agricultural and rural area development.
(3) To consult with and obtain the advice of appropriate Federal departments and agencies with respect to:
(A) intergovernmental relations and cooperation in promoting sound agricultural and rural area development;
(B) provision of information and technical assistance to State and local governments in solving agricultural and rural area development problems; and
(C) encouragement of comprehensive planning of, and effective regional, State, and local cooperation in agricultural and rural area development activities.
(4) To identify agricultural and rural area development problems of particular States, regions, or localities which require interagency or intergovernmental coordination.
(b) The Secretary shall make arrangements with such Federal departments and agencies for such working groups as they shall agree may be desirable to consider special problems arising with respect to matters described in subsection (a) of this section.
SEC. 2. Agency responsibilities. The heads of Federal departments and agencies having programs which have an impact on agricultural or rural area development shall to the extent permitted by law and funds available, furnish information, at the request of the Secretary, pertaining to programs within the responsibilities of such departments or agencies, and such additional information as will assist the Secretary in developing solutions to agricultural and rural area development problems.
SEC. 3. Construction. Nothing in this Order shall be construed as subjecting any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal department or agency or head thereof to the authority of any other agency or officer or as abrogating or restricting any such function in any manner.
SEC. 4. Administrative arrangements. (a) Each executive department and agency participating under section 1 or section 2 shall furnish necessary assistance for effectuating the provisions of this Order as authorized by section 214 of the Act of May 3, 1945, 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691).
(b) The Department of Agriculture shall provide necessary administrative services pursuant to this Order.
SEC. 5. Executive Order 11122 of October 16, 1963, establishing the Rural Development Committee, is hereby superseded.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House
September 30, 1966