By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
The family boating trip has now become almost as common in American life as the family picnic. It is a profound testimony to the strength of our American system and the scope of our prosperity that the recreation of boating, once the pastime of a privileged few, is now enjoyed by millions of families from all walks of life. 
With the steadily increasing traffic on our waterways, however, it is vital that no efforts be spared to keep boating safe as well as stimulating. The knowledge and practice of safe boating principles can make hours spent upon the water measurably safer and more pleasurable. 
Since 1958, when the Congress first requested the President to annually proclaim National Safe Boating Week, the rise in boating accidents has been largely checked. This record can be maintained—and improved—only if the nation's boating organizations, Federal and State agencies, and the boating industry continue their efforts to inform the public of the importance of safe boating practices. 
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week beginning July 3, 1966 as National Safe Boating Week. 
I urge every American who uses our waterways to reexamine his boating habits during this Week and decide what he can do, individually and together with his countrymen, to reduce accidents and prevent the needless waste of lives on the water. 
I also invite the Governors of the States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and other areas subject to the jurisdiction of the United States of America to join in this observance and ask them to exert their influence in the cause of safe boating during this Week and throughout the entire year. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this nineteenth day of January in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninetieth. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
By the President: 
George W. Ball 
Acting Secretary of State