WHEREAS our Nation has become predominantly urban in character and is confronted by serious problems arising from inherited urban decay and rapid urban growth; and
WHEREAS the living standards and general welfare of its people depend upon the solution of the problems of urban life; and
WHEREAS the Congress has provided in the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act that the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (hereinafter referred to as the Secretary) shall "advise the President with respect to Federal programs and activities relating to housing and urban development; develop and recommend to the President policies for fostering the orderly growth and development of the Nation's urban areas; and exercise leadership at the direction of the President in coordinating Federal activities affecting housing and urban development"; and
WHEREAS such activities are closely interrelated with other important Federal activities affecting urban areas so that there is a need for maximum consultation and cooperation among Federal departments and agencies in their administration of programs having impact on urban areas; and
WHEREAS such consultation and cooperation are also essential to enable the Secretary to carry out his responsibilities under that Act to "provide technical assistance and information, including a clearinghouse service to aid State, county, town, village, or other local governments in developing solutions to community and metropolitan development problems; consult and cooperate with State Governors and State agencies . . . with respect to Federal and State programs for assisting communities in developing solutions to community and metropolitan development problems and for encouraging effective regional cooperation in the planning and conduct of community and metropolitan development programs and projects":
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States by the Constitution and laws of the United States, it is ordered as f ollows:
SECTION 1. 
Functions of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
 (a) To assist the Secretary in carrying out his responsibilities pursuant to the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act, he shall convene, or authorize his representatives to convene, meetings at appropriate times and places of the heads, or representatives designated by them, of such Federal departments and agencies with programs affecting urban areas as he deems necessary or desirable for the following purposes:
(1) To provide a forum for consideration of mutual problems concerning Federal programs and activities affecting the development of urban areas and for the exchange of current information needed to achieve coordination of, and to avoid duplication in, such programs and activities.
(2) To promote cooperation among Federal departments and agencies in achieving consistent policies, practices, and procedures for administration of their programs affecting urban areas.
(3) To consult with and obtain the advice of the Federal departments and agencies with respect to:
(A)	consultation and cooperation with State Governors and State and local agencies concerning Federal and State programs for assisting communities;
(B)	provision of technical information, a clearinghouse service, and other assistance to State and local governments in solving community and metropolitan development problems; and
(C) encouragement of comprehensive planning of, and effective regional cooperation in, local urban, community, and metropolitan development activities.
(4) To identify urban development problems of particular States, metropolitan areas, or communities which require interagency or intergovernmental coordination.
(b) The Secretary shall make arrangements with such Federal departments and agencies for working groups to consider special problems arising with respect to matters described in subsection (a) of this section.
SECTION 2. 
Agency responsibilities.
 The heads of Federal departments and agencies having programs which have an impact on urban areas, or representatives designated by them, shall participate in meetings convened pursuant to this Order and, to the extent permitted by law and funds available, shall furnish information, at the request of the Secretary, pertaining to programs within the responsibilities of such departments or agencies, and such additional information as will assist the Secretary in providing a clearinghouse service to aid State and local governments in developing solutions to community and metropolitan development problems.
SECTION 3. 
Construction.
 Nothing in this Order shall be construed as subjecting any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal department or agency or head thereof to the authority of any other agency or officer or as abrogating or restricting any such function in any manner.
SECTION 4. 
Administrative arrangements.
 (a) Each executive department and agency participating under section 1 or section 2 shall furnish necessary assistance for effectuating the provisions of this Order as authorized by section 214 of the Act of May 3, 1945, 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691).
(b) The Department of Housing and Urban Development shall provide necessary administrative services pursuant to this Order.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House
August 11, 1966