By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
December 8 marks the fiftieth anniversary of the day President Wilson proclaimed a Treaty with Great Britain for the protection of migratory birds which fly between Canada and the United States.
A similar Treaty with the Republic of Mexico was proclaimed in 1937.
A 1940 Treaty, ratified by 11 American countries, also protects nature and wildlife in the Western Hemisphere.
All three of these Treaties recognize the value of migratory birds for food and commerce. At the same time they recognize that for so many thousands of sportsmen, game hunting is a part of healthy outdoor recreation. This, too, is part of our heritage.
But these Treaties also affirm the need to protect waterfowl, as a precious natural treasure.
Over the years, Congress has enacted many laws, including the recent Endangered Species Preservation Act, to strengthen these treaties. The Federal Government, working with the States and with Canada, has developed the most advanced waterfowl management practices in the world. Public refuges and other protected areas have been established to conserve habitats for waterfowl and many other migratory species.
But laws, treaties and regulations are not enough. We cannot sit idly by as the bulldozer and dredge destroy the natural environment that birds must have for survival.
More land in public ownership is needed. We shall continue to accelerate land acquisition for waterfowl and other birds. We shall increase our research efforts to preserve the legacy of American wildlife for the enjoyment of all.
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, call upon the people of our Nation to observe Thursday, December 8, 1966, as Migratory Waterfowl Day, commemorating this Nation's first treaty for the protection of migratory birds and pledging our full support of international efforts for their continued welfare.
I urge all citizens to support the work of Federal and State administrators and biologists and the activities of private conservation organizations in programs for the safekeeping of migratory waterfowl—a resource that knows no State or international boundary lines.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this twenty-eighth day of November in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-first.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
By the President:
Secretary of State