By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
America today is experiencing a "mail explosion" that is without precedent. Since 1940, our population has increased by 48 percent. At the same time, however, our mail volume has increased 171 percent.
We are now generating mail at the rate of 76 billion pieces a year—more than the rest of the world combined, and enough to fill a train of boxcars stretching from Boston to San Francisco.
We welcome this "mail explosion," for it is a sure sign of our national prosperity.
But the challenge of moving such vast amounts of mail—speedily and efficiently—is growing, too. Nineteenth century methods of handling and sorting will no longer suffice.
This is the real meaning of ZIP Code. It provides a twentieth century solution to a twentieth century problem.
Thanks to ZIP Code, volume mailers in the second and third class categories will soon be pre-sorting their mail before it enters the postal stream. This will reduce delays and will save the Post Office Department both manhours and money. We salute the business community for its support of this program.
I now call upon all Americans to demonstrate the spirit of wholehearted cooperation that is needed to make the program an unqualified success.
ZIP-Coded mail will enable the Post Office Department to modernize its operations and keep abreast of advancing technology. It will enable the Department to absorb the additional two billion pieces of mail that we generate each year. And it will help the government to contain costs—costs that, ultimately, are borne by the taxpayers.
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the period of October 10 through October 15, 1966, as National ZIP Code Week. I call upon all persons and all business, civic, educational, and service organizations to join in the observance of that week with appropriate ceremonies in which each of us may contribute to a stronger and more efficient postal service by
—learning and using ZIP Code numbers, both in destination and return addresses;
—encouraging our friends, neighbors, and associates to do the same;
—participating in activities to promote the widest possible use of ZIP Code by all persons.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this twentieth day of September in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-first.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
By the President: 
George W. Ball 
Acting Secretary of State