By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
America's laws, her institutions, her wealth—all the treasures of our civilization—have been shaped not only by American will and ambition, but by American intellect.
Without the creative spark of human imagination; without trained minds and finely-trained men, none of our proudest accomplishments would have been possible.
And what is true of our past is even more true for our future: better education must be the base on which we build all our other goals.
Because we treasure trained intelligence as a precious national resource, we have begun a major effort to expand and improve our schools, colleges and universities.
A greatly-strengthened Federal, State and local partnership is at work to serve our 56 million students—the three of every ten Americans who are enrolled in school.
For their sake and for the nation's sake,
—We are making improved education available to thousands of poor children, so that they need not be poor adults;
—We are increasing opportunities for vocational training to meet changing job needs in a technical age;
—We are helping physically and socially handicapped young people prepare for productive lives;
—We are cooperating with the States and with private institutions to improve higher education, and to make it more widely available to deserving young citizens.
But even these massive efforts are not enough.
No programs of government, on any level, hold more promise for the future of our nation than those which advance the cause of education. The foremost goal of this Administration has been to create a legacy of educational excellence. We shall continue to pursue that goal until our schools and universities are as great as human wisdom can make them, and the doors to our classrooms are open to every American boy and girl.
American Education Week, 1966, should be a time for every American to commit himself anew to completing the unfinished business of American Education—and to developing new and more helpful ways to enrich the minds of our citizens in years to come.
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the period of November 6, through November 12, 1966, as American Education Week.
I call upon all the people of the United States to take an active part in the progress and improvement of American education. I ask the citizens of every community to seek every means of advancing the excellence of their schools and fulfilling the educational needs of their school children. I urge educators and laymen to join in common diligence to strengthen our educational system at every level. Above all, I propose that we establish, as our great and immediate goal, the translation into complete reality of our long-cherished hope for full and equal educational opportunity for all Americans.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE on this twenty-sixth day of October in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-first.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
By the President:
Secretary of State