By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
Safety on our streets and highways is one of our Nation's most critical problems. Today, as traffic hazards continue to increase, it is more important than ever that our children be protected as they travel to and from school. 
The school safety patrol program, sponsored jointly by our schools, police departments, and motor clubs, has contributed immeasurably to the safety of our youngsters. 
Since this program began, over 40 years ago, more than sixteen million children have served as school safety patrol members, safeguarding the lives of their fellow students. During that time the traffic death rate among school children has been reduced by nearly one-half, while the death rate of other age groups has doubled. 
To give recognition to the efforts and accomplishments of school safety patrols, the Congress by a joint resolution approved May 5, 1966, has designated the week of May 8 to May 14, 1966, as National School Safety Patrol Week and has requested the President to issue a proclamation calling for its observance. 
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby call upon the people of the United States to observe National School Safety Patrol Week with ceremonies and activities designed to give honor and recognition to those school children who unselfishly devote their time to insure the safety of their fellow students, and to all others whose unstinting cooperation and assistance have made our school safety patrol program an outstanding success. 
I urge parents, school officials, community leaders and others interested in the safety and well being of our school children to give their continued support and encouragement to the school safety patrol program. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this Fifth day of May in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninetieth. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
By the President: 
Secretary of State