By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
On June 14, 1777, the Continental Congress adopted as the flag of the United States a banner of 13 stripes of alternating red and white, and 13 white stars on a blue field. 
That banner was the symbol of a new nation with an intense love of freedom and a belief in the worth and dignity of the individual. 
The design of our flag has changed from time to time to reflect the growth and expansion of our Nation—but the meaning behind the flag has not changed. 
The American flag still stands for a Nation dedicated to the principles of liberty, justice, and equality under law. 
It still symbolizes the heroism and sacrifice of Americans in defense of those principles. 
It still symbolizes hope and promise to the oppressed peoples of the world. 
The day on which our flag was adopted has a special significance for all of us. For this reason the Congress, by the Joint Resolution of August 3, 1949 (63 Stat. 492), designated June 14 of each year as Flag Day and requested the President to issue a proclamation calling for its observance. In order to further extend the opportunities of all Americans to observe and honor this historic occasion, the Congress by a joint resolution of June 9, 1966, has requested the President to issue annually a proclamation designating the week in which June 14 occurs as National Flag Week, and calling upon all citizens to display the Flag of the United States on those days. 
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week beginning June 12, 1966, as National Flag Week. 
I direct the appropriate Government officials to display the Flag of the United States on all Government buildings during that week; and I request the people of the United States to observe Flag Day and National Flag Week by flying the Stars and Stripes at their homes and other suitable places. 
Let us remind ourselves on Flag Day and throughout National Flag Week that the rights and freedoms which we have so long enjoyed under our national flag must be nourished and protected. Let us resolve always to conduct ourselves, at home and abroad, in keeping with the lofty principles for which our flag stands—to the end that freedom and understanding will be encouraged among all people and all nations of the world. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this ninth day of June in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninetieth. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
By the President: 
GEORGE W. BALL 
Acting Secretary of State