By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The signing of the United States Constitution on September 17, 1787, gave this Nation an effective plan of self-government--designed to assure our people equality and justice under law, liberty, and unparalleled opportunity for all.
Today, one hundred and eighty years later, despite the increasing complexities of our world, the Constitution continues to guard fundamental rights.
The preservation of freedom, equality, and justice requires not only an intelligent exercise of our constitutional rights and privileges, but a firm recognition and support of the rights of others.
Our citizens should be ever mindful of the oppressive conditions and injustices which led to the drafting and signing of the Constitution, and of the sufferings and sacrifices which have made it a viable, effective charter of liberty down through the years. 'Against this background and in the spirit of the Founding Fathers, they must constantly renew and strengthen their devotion and adherence to constitutional precepts.
Our citizens—naturalized or native-born—must also seek to refresh and improve their knowledge of how our government operates under the Constitution and how they can participate in it. Only in this way can they assume the full responsibilities of citizenship and make our government more truly of, by, and for the people.
Aware of the need for a recurrent dedication of all our citizens to the principles and ideals of the Constitution, the Congress enacted the joint resolutions of February 29, 1952 (66 Stat. 9), and August 2, 1956 (70 Stat. 932).
The first resolution designated September 17 of each year as Citizenship Day in commemoration of the formation and signing of the Constitution on September 17, 1787, and in recognition of those persons who during the year acquired the status of citizenship either by coming of age or by naturalization. The later resolution requested the President to designate the week beginning September 17 of each year as Constitution Week.
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, summon the appropriate officials of the Government to display the flag of the United States on all Government buildings on Citizenship Day, September 17, 1967; and I urge Federal, State and local officials, as well as all religious, civic, educational, and other organizations, to conduct meaningful ceremonies and observances on that day to inspire all our citizens, especially our youth in whose hands the future rests, to pledge themselves anew to the service of their country and to the support and defense of the Constitution.
I also designate the period beginning September 17 and ending September 23, 1967, as Constitution Week; and I urge the people of the United States to observe that week with appropriate ceremonies and activities in their schools and churches, and in other suitable places, to the end that our citizens, whether they be naturalized or natural-born, may have a better understanding of the Constitution and of the rights and responsibilities of United States citizenship.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this 24th day of May in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-first.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
By the President: 
DEAN RUSK 
Secretary of State