By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Twenty-two years ago, the United States joined in founding the United Nations. Since that time, our Nation has faithfully honored its commitments to the world body, in pursuit of a just and lasting peace.
Every President and Congress since the time of Franklin Delano Roosevelt has given full support to the United Nations. Under every Administration, and without regard to party, our country has:
—cooperated actively in the United Nations search for peace in the Middle East, Kashmir, and other troubled areas around the world;
—supported the United Nations efforts to strengthen the respect of men and nations for the rule of law, and for fundamental human rights and freedoms;
—worked to limit armaments, including nuclear weapons, under effective international control;
—supported the principle of self-determination for areas emerging from dependent status;
—contributed abundantly to United Nations humanitarian activities, and to its programs of economic and social development.
The successful negotiation of a treaty banning weapons of mass destruction from outer space is an outstanding recent example of our support for the UN's work.
The United Nations has no magic formula for solving the increasingly complex problems of our revolutionary age. Its failures have disheartened those who saw in it the only hope for peace in a world torn by strife. Yet despite those failures, it has achieved much that could not have been achieved without it. It remains the symbol, and the standard, of man's desire to turn away from ancient quarrels and make peace with his neighbor.
I urge Americans to study the United Nations—its accomplishments, its strengths, its limitations, and its potential for the future. Broad public knowledge of the United Nations can provide a firm base for future United States action in the organization.
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Tuesday, October 24, 1967, as United Nations Day, and urge the citizens of this Nation to observe that day by means of community programs that will contribute to a realistic understanding of the aims, problems, and achievements of the United Nations and its associated organizations.
I also call upon officials of the Federal and State Governments and upon local officials to encourage citizen groups and agencies of communication—press, radio, television, and motion pictures—to engage in special and appropriate observance of United Nations Day this year in cooperation with the United Nations Association of the United States of America and other interested organizations.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this first day of August in the year of our Lord Nineteen hundred and sixty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-second.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON