By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Education through high school is now within the reach of every American boy and girl. It is essential to our nation's welfare—and to theirs—that they grasp it.
This Nation could neither prosper nor endure without trained, productive men and women. For this reason, we have begun a massive campaign
—to extend the blessings of education to the children of the poor,
—to increase opportunities for vocational training, 
—to help the physically handicapped,
—and to bring higher education within the grasp of more and more of our young people.
A high school diploma is not a sure pass to a successful life, but it vastly increases a young adult's chances for employment and economic independence.
Those who seek employment without training or preparation will knock upon many closed doors. This year, more than 900,000 of our youth will not return to their high school classrooms to complete their secondary education.
For their sake and for ours, it is urgent that they, and others who are tempted to leave school, be persuaded to continue their education.
Citizens in communities across the Nation can help to combat the high school dropout problem—and they are. We have succeeded in reducing the percentage of dropouts among high school age youngsters from 25 percent in 1960 to 18 percent last year. But we must do more.
To emphasize the importance of this task, 
I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do proclaim a national "Stay in School" campaign.
I call upon the American people to make this campaign successful. I ask the citizens of every community to take an active part in furthering the improvement of American education. I urge that the total resources of all communities be brought to bear upon the educational needs of every young person. I propose that we translate into reality our fond hope that, in this Nation, no young man or woman shall reject, or be rejected by, our most essential institution.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of August in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-second.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON