By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Universal Military Training and Service Act (62 Stat. 604), as amended, I hereby prescribe the following Selective Service Regulations, which shall constitute Part 1643 of Chapter XVI of Title 32 of the Code of Federal Regulations:
PART 1643—PAROLE
Sec.
1643.1 Parole—general.
1643.2 Authority to grant parole.
1643.3 Application for parole and recommendation of Director of Selective Service.
1643.4 Action upon recommendation or advice of the Director.
1643.5 Induction of paroled registrant.
1643.6 Reclassification of registrant.
1643.7 Disposition of persons paroled who are not inducted into the Armed Forces.
1643.8 Disposition of persons paroled who are inducted into the Armed Forces and who are discharged under other than honorable conditions.
1643.9 Disposition of persons paroled who are inducted into the Armed Forces and who are discharged under honorable conditions.
1643.10 Parole for assignment to civilian work contributing to the maintenance of the national health, safety, or interest.
1643.11 Authority of the Attorney General to control parolees.
1643.12 Application of general parole laws.
1643.13 Functions of Board of Parole and other officials.
1643.1 Parole—general. Any person required to register under the provisions of the Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended, and any proclamation of the President thereunder, who is convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of the Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended, or any rules or regulations prescribed thereunder, shall be eligible for release from custody on parole for service in the Armed Forces of the United States or for civilian work contributing to the maintenance of the national health, safety, or interest, in the manner and under the conditions provided for in the regulations in this part.
1643.2 Authority to grant parole. In accordance with the procedures specified in Section 1643.3 and upon the recommendation of the Director of Selective Service, as authorized in Section 1643.4, the parole of a convicted person provided for in Section 1643.1 may be granted by the Attorney General if in his judgment it is compatible with the public interest and the enforcement of the Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended. In recommending the parole of any such person, the Director of Selective Service shall also recommend whether he should be paroled (a) for induction into the Armed Forces of the United States, (b) for induction into the Armed Forces of the United States for noncombatant service, but only in cases in which the person's claim for exemption from combatant service has been sustained in his latest classification on the merits by his local board or by the appeal board in the case of an appeal, or (c) subject to the provisions of Section 1643.10 (a) of this part, for assignment to civilian work contributing to the maintenance of the national health, safety, or interest in lieu of induction into the Armed Forces of the United States. If the parole is granted by the Attorney General, it shall conform to such' recommendation.
1643.3 Application for parole and recommendation of Director of Selective Service. (a) Any person who has been convicted of a violation described in Section 1643.1 may apply to the Attorney General for parole. He shall submit with his application a consent in writing to induction, or if he claims to be a conscientious objector to both combatant and noncombatant service, shall execute a consent to assignment to civilian work contributing to the maintenance of the national health, safety, or interest.
(b) If the Attorney General determines that the application for parole should receive consideration, he shall cause the applicant to be physically and mentally examined in the light of Armed Forces induction standards and to be given an intelligence test. A written report shall be prepared setting forth the level of mental ability attained in the test.
(c) The papers executed under Section 1642.31 and paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, including the chest X-ray film and the report of serology, shall be transmitted to the Director of Selective Service by the Attorney General with a request that the Director of Selective Service determine whether he will recommend the parole.
1643.4 Action upon recommendation or advice of the Director. The Director of Selective Service shall either recommend to the Attorney General that the registrant be paroled or shall advise the Attorney General that he does not recommend the parole of the registrant, and he shall forward the papers and chest X-ray film and report of serology referred to in Section 1643.3, together with a copy of his recommendation or advice, to the appropriate State Director of Selective Service for transmittal to the proper local board.
1643.5 Induction of paroled registrant. (a) lithe Attorney General grants parole to a registrant for induction into the Armed Forces, or for induction into the Armed Forces for noncombatant service only, he shall send the local board a certified copy of an order suspending parole supervision of the registrant during military service.
(b) Upon receipt of the certified copy of the order suspending parole supervision, the local board shall proceed to order the registrant to report for induction in the same manner as in the case of a delinquent registrant. Whenever the institution in which the registrant is confined is not located within the area over which his local board has jurisdiction, the registrant shall be transferred for induction, in the manner provided in Section 1632.10 of this chapter, to the local board having jurisdiction of the area in which such institution is located. Arrangements shall be made by the Attorney General for the delivery of the registrant to the examining and entrance station of the Armed Forces so that he may comply with the order to report for induction.
(c) In addition to other records required to be forwarded by a local board in delivering a delinquent registrant, for each paroled registrant there shall be forwarded to the examining and entrance station of the Armed Forces:
(1) the written consent of the registrant to induction;
(2) the certified copy of the order suspending parole supervision of the registrant during military service granted by the Attorney General;
(3) a certified copy of a statement from the Director of Selective Service recommending such parole which will indicate whether the individual is paroled for induction into the Armed Forces for combatant or noncombatant service;
(4) the report of the registrant's intelligence test;
(5) the original and three copies of the Report of Medical Examination (Standard Form 88) completely filled out by the examining physician of the institution of custody;
(6) the Report of Medical History (Standard Form 89);
(7) Serology (Standard Form 514c) original and duplicate copy; and
(8) the chest X-ray films which were completed by the institution physician.
The Delivery List (SSS Form 261) should be separate from any other delivery list and should identify the registrants as paroled registrants.
1643.6 Reclassification of registrant. The local board shall reopen the classification of a registrant who is granted a parole by the Attorney General and is delivered for induction. If the registrant is inducted into the Armed Forces he shall be placed in Class I—C. If he is rejected at the induction station he shall be placed in the lowest class for which he is determined to be eligible under the provisions of Section 1623.2 of this chapter.
1643.7 Disposition of persons paroled who are not inducted into the Armed Forces. Any person who, under the provisions of the regulations in this part, is granted a parole for service in the Armed Forces of the United States but is not actually inducted into such Forces shall be returned to a penal or correctional institution to complete the sentence originally imposed.
1643.8 Disposition of persons paroled who are inducted into the Armed Forces and who are discharged under other than honorable conditions. Any person who is paroled for service in the Armed Forces of the United States and who after induction into such Forces is discharged therefrom under other than honorable conditions (other than "honorable discharge" or "general discharge") shall, if there remains uncompleted any portion of the sentence originally imposed, be returned to a penal or correctional institution or to parole status as a civilian as may be determined in accordance with law.
1643.9 Disposition of persons paroled who are inducted into the Armed Forces and who are discharged under honorable conditions. (a) Any person who is paroled for service in the Armed Forces of the United States and who, after induction and before completion of the service specified in the order granting the parole, is discharged from such Forces under honorable conditions ("honorable discharge" or "general discharge") shall be permitted to remain on parole until the termination of his sentence subject to the provisions of law with respect to Federal prisoners on parole.
(b) Any person who is paroled for service in the Armed Forces of the United States and who is inducted into such Forces and completes his period of service under honorable conditions ("honorable discharge" or "general discharge") as required by the Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended, shall be discharged from further confinement and supervision.
1643.10 Parole for assignment to civilian work contributing to the maintenance of the national health, safety, or interest. (a) No person shall be considered for parole for the purpose of assignment to civilian work contributing to the maintenance of the national health, safety, or interest unless his conviction and incarceration resulted from his failure or refusal to perform civilian work ordered by his local board pursuant to Part 1660 of this chapter.
(b) If the Attorney General grants a parole to a person for assignment to civilian work contributing to the maintenance of the national health, safety, or interest, the Attorney General shall send to the local board a certified copy of his order paroling the registrant for such assignment.
(c) Upon receipt of a certified copy of an order paroling a registrant for assignment to civilian work contributing to the maintenance of the national health, safety, or interest, the local board shall determine what civilian work would be appropriate for him to perform and shall order him to perform that work in the manner provided in Section 1660.20 (a) and (b) of this chapter.
(d) Any person paroled for assignment to civilian work contributing to the maintenance of the national health, safety, or interest, who fails or refuses to perform any such work satisfactorily, shall be reported by the Director of Selective Service to the Attorney General who may, in his discretion, revoke the parole of such person and return him to a penal or correctional institution to complete the sentence originally imposed with or without credit for the time spent on parole as the Attorney General may deem appropriate.
1643.11 Authority of the Attorney General to control parolees. The Attorney General may impose such terms and conditions as he may deem proper upon any person paroled under the provisions of this part. Paroles authorized by this part may be revoked at any time in the discretion of the Attorney General. In any such case the parolee shall be returned to the proper penal or correctional institution to complete the sentence originally imposed.
1643.12 Application of general parole laws. Nothing in the regulations in this part shall be construed to limit or restrict the application of the parole provisions contained in Title 18 of the United States Code.
1643.13 Functions of Board of Parole and other officials. References in the regulations in this part to the Attorney General shall be construed to refer to the Board of Parole or to other officers or employees of the Department of Justice insofar as such references involve functions vested by statute in, or delegated by the Attorney General to, the Board of Parole or other officers or employees of the Department of Justice.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House
January 30, 1967