WHEREAS the economical management of the executive branch is a vital and continuing responsibility of the President; and
WHEREAS it is essential that the resources devoted to the fulfillment of our international responsibilities and the needs of our citizens be utilized in as effective and prudent a manner as possible; and
WHEREAS economies achieved in any governmental program permit more effective meeting of these urgent national needs; and
WHEREAS the best cost reduction practices and techniques developed by individual Government agencies and by business and industry should be utilized in all Government agencies whenever applicable; and
WHEREAS there is a need for review and advice to the President on the progress of the Government's cost reduction program:
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Establishment of the Council. (a) There is hereby established the President's Advisory Council on Cost Reduction (hereinafter referred to as the Council).
(b) The Council shall consist of the following:
(1) The Director of the Bureau of the Budget, who shall be the Chairman of the Council,
(2) The Secretary of Defense, the Chairman of the United States Civil Service Commission, and the Administrator of General Services,
(3) Such other heads of executive departments and agencies, and such other officers or employees of the Federal Government, as the President may designate, and
(4) Such other members as the President may appoint from the public at large.
(c) Federal members of the Council shall receive no additional compensation for such service. Members appointed from private life shall receive compensation for each day engaged on business of the Council and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by sections 3109 and 5703 of Title 5 of the United States Code for persons in the Government service employed intermittently.
SEC. 2. Functions of the Council. The Council shall:
(1) Review and evaluate the nature and adequacy of the Government cost reduction efforts and advise the President on means to strengthen and improve them.
(2) Explore with responsible operating officials throughout the executive branch opportunities for cost reduction and appropriate actions to achieve them.
(3) Consult with leaders in business, industry and research to draw on their experience in achieving cost reductions and to invite their suggestions.
(4) Identify outstanding cost reduction programs, practices, and techniques developed in Government agencies and in business and industry susceptible to wider use in Government.
(5) Submit a final report to the President containing an evaluation of the Government-wide cost reduction program and appropriate recommendations for enhancing its effectiveness no later than 12 months after the effective date of this order, and make interim reports which it deems advisable.
SEC. 3. Federal agencies. (a) Upon request of the Chairman each executive department and agency shall, consistent with law, furnish the Council available information which the Council may require in performance of its functions.
(b) Each executive department and agency represented on the Council shall furnish such necessary assistance to the Council as may be authorized by section 214 of the Act of May 3, 1945, 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691).
SEC. 4. Termination of the Council. The Council shall terminate 30 days after the submission of the final report to the President.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House
May 23, 1967