By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
America's transportation network is a living testament to our system of free enterprise.
Operating in partnership with the Federal Government, it has met every challenge of war and peace. It has earned the respect and excited the admiration of men everywhere.
Yet the decades ahead will tax our ingenuity to meet sharply rising demands for transportation services. Transportation facilities must double every 20 years.
Responding to this challenge, the Congress has created a new Department of Transportation. Its mission is to help the transportation industry develop new techniques and better integration of services. The new Department, now in its infancy, can help to assure the Nation the best, the most economical, and the fastest transportation services the world has ever, seen.
In recognition of the contributions of this great industry, the Congress, by joint resolution approved May 16, 1957 (71 Stat. 30), has requested the President to proclaim annually the third Friday of May of each year as National Defense Transportation Day, and by a joint resolution approved May 14, 1962 (76 Stat. 69), has requested the President to proclaim annually the week of May in which that Friday falls as National Transportation Week, as a tribute to the men and women who, night and day, move our goods and our people throughout the land and around the world.
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate Friday, May 19, 1967, as National Defense Transportation Day, and the week beginning May 14, 19.67, as National Transportation Week.
I urge our people to participate with representatives of the transportation industry, our armed services, and other governmental agencies in the observance of these occasions through appropriate ceremonies.
I also invite the Governors of the States to provide for the observance of National Defense Transportation Day and National Transportation Week in a way that will give the citizens of each community the opportunity to recognize and appreciate fully the vital role our great and modern transportation system plays in their lives and in the defense of the Nation.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this fourteenth day of February in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-seven; and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-first.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
By the President: 
DEAN RUSK 
Secretary of State