By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Our Nation's history is far more than a mere record of long ago events. For it is only through knowing and understanding the sources of our common heritage that we become aware of ourselves as being, in truth, one people.
Law or Government alone could never bind two hundred million Americans together in common citizenship: this can only be the result of shared dreams, of common convictions, of the sense of kinship and fraternity which comes from a deep appreciation of our people's history.
Nor is that history merely a chronicle of battles won or lost: it is the sum of all our art and science, our philosophy and politics, our religion and our law. It is all these woven together which make up the fabric of American life as we see it and live it today.
Finally, it is through the study of history that present generations can best honor our debt to the wisdom, faith, and sacrifice of those who came before us.
In recognition of this, the Congress by a joint resolution approved November 5, 1966, has designated February 1967 as American History Month and has requested the President to issue a proclamation inviting the people of the United States to observe that month with appropriate ceremonies. I am proud to honor that request.
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, invite the people of the United States to observe February 1967 as American History Month with appropriate ceremonies and related activities in our educational, civic, fraternal, and patriotic organizations and in other suitable places.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this sixth day of January in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-first.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
By the President: 
DEAN RUSK 
Secretary of State