By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. (a) The Secretary of Agriculture is hereby designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the authority vested in the President by clause (1) of the fifth sentence of section 407 of the Agricultural Act of 1949, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1427), to the extent prescribed in subsection (b) of this section.
(b) Whenever the Secretary of Agriculture determines that the chronic economic distress of the needy members of an Indian tribe is materially increased by severe drought, flood, hurricane, blizzard, or other uncontrollable catastrophe affecting any reservation or other land designated for Indian use which is utilized by members of such tribe for grazing livestock, he may, under subsection (a) of this section, declare such reservation or other land to be an acute distress area because of unemployment or other economic reasons if he finds that the use of farm commodities or the products thereof made available by the Commodity Credit Corporation for livestock feed in that area will not displace or interfere with normal marketing of agricultural commodities.
SEC. 2. Federal assistance in relieving distress, extended as a result of action by the Secretary of Agriculture under the authority delegated by section 1 of this order, shall terminate in each instance upon notice by the Secretary of Agriculture.
SEC. 3. In carrying out the provisions of this order the Secretary of Agriculture shall maintain liaison with the Secretary of the Interior and shall consult with the latter as may be appropriate.
SEC. 4. The declaration contained in the letter of the President to the Secretary of Agriculture, dated February 1, 1965, that reservation lands in Arizona, Utah and New Mexico, which are grazed in common by Indian tribes, are an acute distress area shall continue in effect until January 1, 1968, or until such earlier date as may be fixed by notice of the Secretary of Agriculture published in the Federal Register.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House
March 22, 1967