WHEREAS the proper discharge of Federal responsibilities under the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965 (79 Stat. 5, 40 U.S.C. App.) and the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 (79 Stat. 552, 42 U.S.C. 3121 et seq.), as amended by Public Law 90-103, 81 Stat. 257, requires that the participation of the Federal Government in regional development activities be effectively coordinated;
WHEREAS the President is required by the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965 to provide effective and continuing liaison between the Federal Government and the Appalachian Regional Commission;
WHEREAS the Secretary of Commerce has responsibility under the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 for Federal economic development activities designed to alleviate conditions of substantial and persistent unemployment and underemployment in economically distressed areas and regions of the Nation;
WHEREAS the Secretary of Commerce is directed by the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 to coordinate the Federal Cochairmen appointed to regional commissions established before or after the date of that Act;
WHEREAS the Secretary of Commerce is required by the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 to provide effective and continuing liaison between the Federal Government and each regional commission established under Title V of that Act; and
WHEREAS the Secretary of Commerce has been Chairman of the President's Review Committee for Development Planning in Alaska, established to provide general direction and guidance to the Federal Field Committee for Development Planning in Alaska, established by Executive Order No. 11182, dated October 2, 1964:
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965, the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, and section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. 
Functions of the Secretary of Commerce.
 The Secretary of Commerce shall 
(a) Provide the effective and continuing liaison required by section 104 of the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965 and by section 503 (c) of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 between the Federal Government and each regional commission established under those Acts, and between the Federal Government and the Federal Field Committee for Development Planning in Alaska (hereinafter referred to as "the Field Committee").
(b) Obtain a coordinated review within the Federal Government of plans and recommendations submitted by the commissions and the Field Committee.
(c) Provide guidance and policy direction to the Federal Cochairmen and the Chairman of the Field Committee with respect to their Federal functions.
(d) Promote the effective coordination of the activities of the Federal Government relating to regional economic development.
(e) In carrying out the functions set forth in section 1 (a), (b), (c), and (d) the Secretary of Commerce shall 
(1) Review the regional economic development plans and programs submitted to him by the Federal Cochairmen, budgetary recommendations, the standards for development underlying those plans, programs and budgetary recommendations, and legislative recommendations; and advise the Federal Cochairmen of the Federal policy with respect to those matters, and where appropriate, submit recommendations to the Director of the Bureau of the Budget.
(2) Review and advise the Chairman of the Field Committee with respect to the tentative plans and recommendations of the Field Committee, and receive and consider the final plans and recommendations of the Field Committee and transmit them to the heads of interested Federal departments and agencies and to the President.
(3) Resolve any questions of policy which may arise between a Federal Cochairman and a Federal department or agency in the implementation of regional development programs.
(4) Appoint a Special Assistant and other staff as required to assist him in carrying out these functions.
SEC. 2. 
Establishment of the Council.
 (a) There is hereby established the Federal Advisory Council on Regional Economic Development, hereinafter referred to as "the Council."
(b) The Council shall be composed of the following members: The Secretary of Commerce, who shall be the Chairman of the Council (hereinafter referred to as "the Chairman"), the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Transportation, the Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity, the Administrator of the Small Business Administration, the Federal Cochairman of the Appalachian Regional Commission, such Federal Cochairmen as are appointed by the President under authority of Title V of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, and the Chairman of the Field Committee.
(c) Whenever matters within the purview of the Council may be of interest to heads of Federal departments or agencies not represented on the Council under section 2 (b) of this order, the Chairman may consult with the heads of such departments and agencies and may invite them to participate in meetings and deliberations of the Council.
(d) The Council shall meet at the call of the Chairman.
SEC. 3. 
Functions of the Council.
 The Council shall assist the Secretary of Commerce in carrying out the functions set forth in section 1 of this order, and shall, as requested by the Secretary of Commerce 
(a) Review proposed long-range economic development plans prepared by the regional commissions and the Field Committee.
(b) Recommend desirable development objectives and programs for such regions and Alaska.
(c) Review proposed designations of additional economic development regions under Title V of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965.
(d) Review Federal programs relating to regional economic development, develop basic policies and priorities with respect to such programs, and recommend administrative or legislative action needed to stimulate and further regional economic development.
(e) Review proposed department or agency regional economic development plans.
(f) Recommend surveys and studies needed to assist the Secretary of Commerce and the Council in carrying out their functions.
SEC. 4. 
Responsibilities of Participating Federal Agencies.
 (a) Each Federal department and agency the head of which is referred to in section 2 (b) of this order shall, as may be necessary, furnish assistance to the Council in accordance with the provisions of section 214 of the Act of May 3, 1945 (59 Stat. 134, 31 U.S.C. 691).
(b) The head of each such Federal department or agency shall designate an Assistant Secretary or equivalent level official who shall have primary and continuing responsibility for the participation and cooperation of that department or agency in regional economic development as required by this order.
(c) The head of each such Federal department or agency shall keep the Secretary of Commerce and the Council informed of all proposed regional economic development plans of his department or agency.
(d) The head of each such Federal department or agency shall, consonant with law and within the limits of available funds, cooperate with the Council and with the Secretary of Commerce in carrying out their functions under this order. Such cooperation shall include, as may be appropriate, (1) furnishing relevant available information, (2) making studies and preparing reports, (3) in connection with the development of programs, priorities, and operations of the department or agency, giving full consideration to any plans and recommendations for the economic development of the various regions, including recommendations made by the Council, and (4) advising on the work of the Council as the Chairman may from time to time request.
SEC. 5. 
Responsibilities of the Federal Cochairmen and the Chairman of the Field Committee.
 The Federal Cochairmen, and the Chairman of the Field Committee as appropriate, shall 
(a) Maintain continuing liaison with the Secretary of Commerce with respect to the activities of the regional commissions and the Field Committee.
(b) Adhere to general Federal policies affecting regional economic development that are established by the Secretary of Commerce.
(c) Inform the appropriate Federal departments and agencies of programs and projects to be considered by the commissions, and attempt to obtain a consensus within the Federal Government through consultation with appropriate Federal agency representatives before casting a vote on any such matter.
(d) Represent the participating Federal departments and agencies in connection with the activities of the regional commissions.
(e) Submit to the Secretary of Commerce regional economic development plans and programs of the regional commissions, budgetary recommendations, legislative recommendations, and progress reports, as requested by the Secretary of Commerce, on the activities of the regional commissions.
(f) Submit reports required by section 304 of the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965 and by section 510 of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 to the Secretary of Commerce for review prior to transmittal to the President or the Congress.
SEC. 6. 
Appalachian Program.
 (a) Funds appropriated pursuant to sections 201 and 401 of the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965 shall be available to the Federal Cochairman of the Appalachian Regional Commission for the purposes of carrying out that Act.
(b) The Federal Cochairman of the Appalachian Regional Commission is delegated the functions conferred upon the President by sections 214(a), 302 (a), and 302 (c) of the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965, which shall be exercised by him in accordance with the provisions of this order.
SEC. 7. 
Construction.
 Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal department or agency, to the authority of the Council or the Secretary of Commerce, or as abrogating or restricting any such function in any manner.
SEC. 8. 
Definition.
 Except as the context may otherwise require, any reference herein to any Act, or to any provision of any Act, shall be deemed to be a reference thereto as amended from time to time.
SEC. 9. 
Prior Executive Orders.
 (a) Executive Order No. 11182, as amended, is hereby further amended as follows:
(1) By changing the heading of the order so as to read as follows: "ESTABLISHING THE FEDERAL FIELD COMMITTEE FOR DEVELOPMENT PLANNING IN ALASKA".
(2) By striking the words "the Housing and Home Finance Administrator" from section 1 (b) and by inserting in lieu thereof the words "the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity".
(3) By substituting the following for subsection (a) of section 2:
"(a) Subject to the general direction and guidance of the Secretary of Commerce, the Field Committee shall serve as the principal instrumentality for developing coordinated plans for Federal programs which contribute to economic and resources development in Alaska and for recommending appropriate action by the Federal Government to carry out such plans."
(4) By striking from sections 3(e) and 3 (f) the words "Review Committee" and by inserting in lieu thereof the words "Secretary of Commerce".
(5) By revoking Part II. The President's Review Committee for Development Planning in Alaska, established by that Part, shall be deemed to be hereby abolished.
(6) By redesignating Part III and section 31 thereof as Part II and section 21, respectively.
(7) By redesignating Part IV and sections 41, 42, and 43 as Part III and sections 31, 32, and 33, respectively, and by striking from the redesignated section 33 the words "and the Review Committee".
(b) The Federal Development Committee for Appalachia, established by Executive Order No. 11209 of March 25, 1965, is hereby abolished and that order is hereby revoked.
The White House
December 28, 1967
LYNDON B. JOHNSON