By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 673a of title 10 of the United States Code, and by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. (a) The Secretary of Defense is hereby authorized and empowered to exercise the authority vested in the President by section 673a of title 10 of the United States Code, to order to active duty any member of the Ready Reserve of an armed force (except the Coast Guard when not operating as a service in the Navy) who—
(1) is not assigned to, or participating satisfactorily in, a unit of the Ready Reserve;
(2) has not fulfilled his statutory reserve obligation; and
(3) has not served on active duty for a total of 24 months.
(b) In pursuance of the provisions of section 673a of title 10 of the United States Code, the Secretary of Defense is hereby authorized to require a member ordered to active duty under the authority of this Order to serve on active duty until his total service on active duty equals 24 months. If the enlistment or period of military service of a member of the Ready Reserve ordered to active duty under this authority would expire before he has served the required period of active duty prescribed herein, his enlistment or period of military service may be extended until he has served the required period.
(c) In pursuance of the provisions of section 673a of title 10 of the United States Code, and in order to achieve fair treatment among members of the Ready Reserve who are being considered for active duty under this authority, appropriate consideration shall be given to—
(1) family responsibilities; and
(2) employment necessary to maintain the national health, safety, or interest.
SEC. 2. The Secretary of Transportation is hereby authorized and empowered to exercise the authority vested in the President by section 673a of title 10 of the United States Code, with respect to any member of the Ready Reserve of the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a service in the Navy, under the same conditions as such authority may be exercised by the Secretary of Defense under this Order with respect to any member of the Ready Reserve of any other armed force.
SEC. 3. (a) The Secretary of Defense may designate any of the Secretaries of the military departments of the Department of Defense to exercise the authority vested in him by section 1 of this Order.
(b) The Secretary of Transportation may designate the Commandant of the United States Coast Guard to exercise the authority vested in him by section 2 of this Order.
SEC. 4. Executive Order No. 11327 of February 15, 1967, is superseded except with respect to members of the Ready Reserve ordered to active duty under the authority of that Order.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House
August 4, 1967