By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The future of America is written on school blackboards and in student notebooks. The quality of thought in our classrooms today will determine the quality of our lives a generation hence.
This year more Americans are in school than ever before in our history. Three out of every ten are occupied—as students or teachers—in the process of education.
Thirty-seven million children-1.4 percent more than last year—are enrolled in elementary schools. High school enrollments are up 3 percent more than last year—to 13.7 million. College and university enrollments have increased 8.3 percent from last year—up to 6.5 million.
Dropout rates are falling. About three out of four young people finish high school today. The 1968 high school graduating class will be the largest in history, and about 40 percent of these graduates will go on to college. Every sixth young American is earning a bachelor's degree.
Our people know that the education of our young people is our best investment. In just two years, Federal contributions to education at all levels have nearly tripled. And we have not rested, and will not rest until we
—bring college within reach of every American,
—make vocational training available to all who need it,
—provide education and training for adults who missed it in their youth,
—improve the quality of education for all.
To call attention to this challenge, to muster the support of all the media of communication, public officials, business leaders, parents, educators and students, 
I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the period of November 5 through November 11, 1967, as American Education Week, and I call upon the American people to celebrate the achievements of their educational system, and to dedicate themselves to making it still more responsive to our Nation's needs.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twelfth day of August in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-second.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON