By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
In less than a generation, the American farmer has created a greater agricultural abundance than his predecessors through all the generations of our history achieved.
One farmer today feeds and clothes himself and 39 others—almost four times as many as he sustained a quarter of a century ago.
This revolution wrought by the American farmer is one of the triumphs of our age. Even though he himself has not always received his fair share of the Nation's prosperity—a circumstance which his country in good conscience cannot permit to continue—he has helped to improve the conditions of life for every American.
The average consumer today enjoys a more abundant supply of food than any people has ever known—and he pays a lesser share of his income for it than ever before.
One of the most vital contributions to the achievements of American agriculture has been understanding and cooperation between farm and city—an interdependence that has supported our National development.
Moreover, American agriculture now represents hope for cities and villages far beyond our shores, where the spectre of poverty threatens the stability—and even the peace—of the world.
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week of November l7 through November 23,l967, as National Farm-City Week, and call upon citizens throughout the Nation to participate in observance of that week.
I request that leaders of farmers' organizations, business groups and labor unions, youth and women's clubs, civic associations, and all consumers join in this observance to increase public appreciation of agriculture as the vital base of our Nation's economy and of our individual well-being.
I urge the Department of Agriculture, land-grant colleges and universities, the cooperative extension service, and all appropriate Government officials to cooperate with National, State, and local organizations in carrying out appropriate observations of National Farm-City Week, including public meetings and exhibits, and press, radio, and television features.
I urge that such programs emphasize:
—the necessity of facing the challenge of the future in agriculture simultaneously with meeting the needs of today—a theme which the Department of Agriculture calls "Agriculture/2000."
—the need to help hungry nations help themselves to become more productive—the ultimate solution to food shortage problems.
—the moral and practical imperative of creating a better total environment for all our citizens in both rural and urban communities, by removing the causes of poverty, discrimination, and ignorance, by controlling pollution, and by wisely and productively using our soil, water, forests, and other renewable resources.
—the importance of continuing to build an economically sound family-farm agriculture and a visually beautiful countryside.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 28th day of September, in the Year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-second.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON