By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Military Selective Service Act of 1967 (62 Stat. 604), as amended, I hereby prescribe the following amendments of the Selective Service Regulations prescribed by Executive Orders No. 9979 of July 2, 1948, No. 9988 of August 20, 1948, No. 10008 of October 18, 1948, No. 10001 of September 17, 1948, No. 10202 of January 12, 1951, No. 10292 of September 25, 1951, No. 10363 of June 17, 1952, No. 10366 of June 26, 1952, No. 10469 of July 11, 1953, No. 10562 of September 20, 1954, No. 10659 of February 15, 1956, No. 10714 of June 13, 1957, No. 10735 of October 17, 1957, No. 10809 of March 19, 1959, No. 10984 of January 5, 1962, No. 11098 of March 14, 1963, No. 11188 of November 17, 1964, No. 11241 of August 26, 1965, No. 11266 of January 18, 1966, and No. 11350 of May 3, 1967, and constituting portions of Chapter XVI of Title 32 of the Code of Federal Regulations:
1. The term "Military Selective Service Act of 1967" shall be substituted for "Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended," wherever the latter appears in the Selective Service Regulations.
2. The term "Environmental Science Services Administration" shall be substituted for "Coast and Geodetic Survey" wherever the latter appears in the Selective Service Regulations.
3. Part 1604, Selective Service Officers, is amended as follows:
(a) Section 1604.22, Composition and Appointment, is amended to read as follows:
"For each appeal board area an appeal board, normally of five members, shall be appointed by the President, upon recommendation of the Governor. The members shall be citizens of the United States who are not members of the armed forces or any reserve component thereof; they shall be residents of the area in which their board is appointed; and they shall be at least 30 years of age. No member shall serve on an appeal board for more than twenty-five years, or after he has attained the age of seventy-five years. The appeal board should be a composite board, representative of the activities of its area, and as such should include one member from labor, one member from industry, one physician, one lawyer, and, where applicable, one member from agriculture. If the number of appeals sent to the board becomes too great for the board to handle without undue delay, additional panels of five members similarly constituted shall be appointed to the board by the President, upon recommendation of the Governor. Each such panel shall have full authority to act on all cases assigned to it. Each panel shall act separately. The State Director of Selective Service shall coordinate the work of all the panels to effect an equitable distribution of the workload."
(b) Section 1604.52, Composition and Appointment, is amended by:
(1) Amending paragraph (c) to read as follows:
"(c) The members of local boards shall be citizens of the United States who shall be residents of a county in which their local board has jurisdiction and who shall also, if at all practicable, be residents of the area in which their local board has jurisdiction. No member of a local board shall be a member of the armed forces or any reserve component thereof. Members of local boards shall be at least 30 years of age."
(2) Adding at the end a new paragraph (d) to read as follows:
"(d) No member shall serve on any local board for more than twenty-five years, or after he has attained the age of seventy-five years."
(c) Section 1604.71, Appointment and Duties, is amended as follows:
(1) Paragraph (c) is amended to read as follows:
"(c) Each government appeal agent and associate government appeal agent shall be, whenever possible, a person with legal training and experience."
(2) A new paragraph (e) is added, to read as follows:
"(e) The State Director of Selective Service may authorize any duly appointed government appeal agent or associate government appeal agent to perform such duties for any local board within the state."
4. Part 1611, Duty and Responsibility to Register, is amended as follows:
(a) Paragraph (a) of section 1611.2, Persons Not Required to be Registered, is amended to read as follows:
"(a) Under the provisions of section 6(a) of the Military Selective Service Act of 1967 the following persons are not required to be registered:
"(1) Commissioned officers, warrant officers, pay clerks, enlisted men, and aviation cadets of the Regular Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marine Corps, the Coast Guard, the Environmental Science Services Administration, and the Public Health Service;
"(2) cadets, United States Military Academy;
"(3) midshipmen, United States Navy;
"(4) cadets, United States Air Force Academy;
"(5) cadets, United States Coast Guard Academy;
"(6) midshipmen, Merchant Marine Reserve, United States Naval Reserves;
"(7) students enrolled in an officer procurement program at military colleges the curriculum of which is approved by the Secretary of Defense;
"(8) members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces, the Coast Guard, and the Public Health Service, while on active duty, provided that such active duty in the Public Health Service that commences after the enactment of the Military Selective Service Act of 1967 is performed by members of the Reserve of the Public Health Service while assigned to staff any of the various offices and bureaus of the Public Health Service, including the National Institutes of Health, or while assigned to the Coast Guard, the Bureau of Prisons of the Department of Justice, or the Environmental Science Services Administration; and
"(9) foreign diplomatic representatives, technical attaches of foreign embassies and legations, consuls general, consuls, vice consuls and other consular agents of foreign countries who are not citizens of the United States, and members of their families."
(b) Section 1611.5, Registration of Certain Persons Entering the United States, is amended by striking paragraph (a) and redesignating the provisions of the present paragraph (b) as section 1611.5.
5. Part 1622, Classification Rules and Principles, is amended as follows:
(a) Section 1622.1, General Principles of Classification, is amended as follows:
(1) Paragraph (a) is amended to read as follows:
"(a) (1) Primary liability for military training and service provided by the selective service law is placed on those persons in the following categories who are between the ages of 18 years and 6 months and 26 years:
"(i) Every male citizen of the United States;
"(ii) Every male alien admitted to the United States for permanent residence; and
"(iii) Every male alien who has remained in the United States in a status other than that of a permanent resident for a period or periods totaling one year.
"(2) Persons who on June 19, 1951, or thereafter were deferred under the provisions of section 6(c) (2) (A) of the Act that were in effect prior to September 3, 1963, remain liable for training and service until they attain age 28.
"(3) Persons whose liability for training and service is extended by the Act to age 35 are:
"(i) persons in a medical, dental or allied specialist category, and
"(ii) persons who on June 19, 1951, were, or thereafter are, deferred under any other provisions of section 6 of the Act.
(2) A new paragraph (e) is prescribed, to read as follows:
"(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any registrant who has failed or refused to report for induction shall continue to remain liable for induction, and when available shall be immediately inducted."
(b) Section 1622.11, Class I–A-0: Conscientious Objector Available for Noncombatant Military Service Only, is amended by deleting paragraph (b) thereof, and paragraph (a) is redesignated as section 1622.11.
(c) Paragraph (d) of section 1622.12, Class I–C: Member of the Armed Forces of the United States, the Environmental Science Services Administration, or the Public Health Service, is amended to read as follows:
"(d) Exclusive of periods for training only, every registrant who is a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces and is on active duty, and every member of the Reserve of the Public Health Service on duty prior to the enactment of the Military Selective Service Act of 1967 or who after such enactment is on active duty and assigned to staff the various offices and bureaus of the Public Health Service including the National Institutes of Health, or assigned to the Coast Guard, or the Bureau of Prisons of the Department of Justice, or the Environmental Science Services Administration."
(d) Paragraph (f) of section 1622.13, Class I–D: Member of Reserve Component or Student Taking Military Training, is amended to read as follows:
"(f) In Class I–D shall be placed any registrant, other than a registrant referred to in paragraph (b) or (g) of this section, who—
"(1) prior to the issuance of orders for him to report for induction; or
"(2) prior to the date scheduled for his induction and pursuant to a proclamation by the Governor of a State to the effect that the authorized strength of any unit of the National Guard of that State cannot be maintained by the enlistment or appointment of persons who have not been issued orders to report for induction; or
"(3) prior to the date scheduled for his induction and pursuant to a determination by the President that the strength of the Ready Reserve of the Army Reserve, Naval Reserve, Marine Corps Reserve, Air Force Reserve, or Coast Guard Reserve cannot be maintained by the enlistment or appointment of persons Who have not been issued orders to report for induction; enlists or accepts appointment, before attaining the age of 26 years, in the Ready Reserve of any Reserve component of the Armed Forces, the Army National Guard, or the Air National Guard. Such registrant shall remain eligible for Class I–D so long as he serves satisfactorily as a member of an organized unit of such Ready Reserve or National Guard, or satisfactorily performs such other Ready Reserve service as may be prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, or serves satisfactorily as a member of the Ready Reserve of another reserve component, the Army National Guard, or the Air National Guard, as the case may be."
(e) Paragraph (b) of section 1622.14, Class 1-0: Conscientious Objector Available for Civilian Work Contributing to the Maintenance of the National Health, Safety, or Interest, is hereby rescinded, and paragraph (a) is redesignated as section 1622.14.
(f) Paragraph (b) of section 1622.15, Class I–S: Student Deferred by Statute, is amended to read as follows:
"(b) In Class I–S shall be placed any registrant who while satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course of instruction at a college, university or similar institution of learning and during his academic year at such institution is ordered to report for induction, except that no registrant shall be placed in Class I–S under the provisions of this paragraph
"(1) who has previously been placed in Class I–S thereunder
or
"(2) who has been deferred as a student in Class II–S and has received his baccalaureate degree.
A registrant who is placed in Class I–S under the provision of this paragraph shall be retained in Class I–S
"(1) until the end of his academic year or
"(2) until he ceases satisfactorily to pursue such course of instruction, whichever is the earlier.
The date of the classification in Class I–S and the date of its termination shall be entered in the "Remarks" column of the Classification Record (SSS Form 102) and be identified on that record as Class I–S (C)."
(g) Section 1622.22, Class II–A: Registrant Deferred Because of Civilian Occupation (Except Agriculture and Activity in Study), is amended by designating the present provisions thereof as paragraph (a) and by adding thereto a new paragraph (b), to read as follows:
"(b) In Class II–A shall be placed any registrant who is preparing for critical skills and other essential occupations as identified by the Director of Selective Service upon the advice of the National Security Council."
(h) Paragraph (c) of section 1622.23, Necessary Employment Defined, is amended to read as follows:
"(c) The Director of Selective Service may from time to time, upon the advice of the National Security Council, identify needed professional and scientific personnel and those engaged in and preparing for critical skills and other essential occupations."
(i) Section 1622.24, Class II–C: Registrant Deferred Because of Agricultural Occupation, is amended by rescinding paragraph (c) thereof.
(j) Section 1622.25, Class II—S: Registrant Deferred Because of Activity in Study, is amended to read as follows:
"(a) In Class II—S shall be placed any registrant who has requested such deferment and who is satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course of instruction at a college, university, or similar institution of learning, such deferment to continue until such registrant completes the requirement for his baccalaureate degree, fails to pursue satisfactorily a full-time course of instruction, or attains the twenty-fourth anniversary of the date of his birth, whichever occurs first.
"(b) In determining eligibility for deferment in Class II—S, a student's 'academic year' shall include the 12-month period following the beginning of his course of study.
"(c) A student shall be deemed to be 'satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course of instruction' when, during his academic year, he has earned, as a minimum, credits toward his degree which, when added to any credits earned during prior academic years, represent a proportion of the total number required to earn his degree at least equal to the proportion which the number of academic years completed bears to the normal number of years established by the school to obtain such degree. For example, a student pursuing a four-year course should have earned 25% of the credits required for his baccalaureate degree at the end of his first academic year, 50% at the end of his second academic year, and 75% at the end of his third academic year.
"(d) It shall be the registrant's duty to provide the local board each year with evidence that he is satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course of instruction at a college, university, or similar institution of learning."
(k) Section 1622.26, Class II—S: Registrant Deferred Because of Activity in Graduate Study, is hereby prescribed, to read as follows:
"(a) In Class IT—S shall be placed any registrant who is satisfactorily pursuing a course of graduate study in medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, osteopathy or optometry, or in such other subjects necessary to the maintenance of the national health, safety, or interest as are identified by the Director of Selective Service upon the advice of the National Security Council.
"(b) Any registrant who is entering his second or subsequent year of post-baccalaureate study without interruption on October 1, 1967, may be placed in Class II—S if his school certifies that he is satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course of instruction leading to his degree; but such registrant shall not be deferred for a course of study leading to a master's degree or the equivalent for more than one additional year, or for a course of study leading to a doctoral or professional degree or the equivalent (or combination of master's and doctoral degrees) for more than a total of five years, inclusive of the years already used in such course of study, or for one additional year, whichever is greater. Any registrant enrolled for his first year of post-baccalaureate study in a graduate school or a professional school on October 1, 1967, or accepted for admission involving enrolled status on October 1, 1967, may be placed in Class IT—S if he has entered the first class commencing after the date he completed the requirements for admission and shall be deferred for one academic year only, or until he ceases satisfactorily to pursue such course of instruction, whichever is the earlier."
(1) Paragraph (a) of section 1622.30, Class III—A: Registrant With a Child or Children; and Registrant Deferred by Reason of Extreme Hardship to Dependents, is amended to read as follows:
"(a) In Class III—A shall be placed any registrant who has a child or children with whom he maintains a bona fide family relationship in their home and who is not a physician, dentist or veterinarian, or who is not in an allied specialist category which may be announced by the Director of Selective Service after being advised by the Secretary of Defense that a special requisition under authority of section 1631.4 of these regulations will be issued by the delivery of registrants in such category, except that a registrant who is classified in Class IT—S after the date of enactment of the Military Selective Service Act of 1967 shall not be eligible for classification in Class III—A under the provisions of this paragraph."
(m) Section 1622.40, Class IV—A: Registrant Who Has Completed Service; Sole Surviving Son, is amended by:
(1) Amending subparagraph (3) of paragraph (a) to read as follows:
"(3) A registrant who has served on active duty for a period of not less than twenty-four months as a commissioned officer in the Environmental Science Services Administration or in the Public Health Service, provided that such period of active duty in the Public Health Service as a commissioned reserve officer commencing after the date of enactment of the Military Selective Service Act of 1967 shall have been performed by the registrant while assigned to staff any of the various offices and bureaus of the Public Health Service including the National Institutes of Health, or while assigned to the Coast Guard, or the Bureau of Prisons of the Department of Justice, or the Environmental Science Services Administration."
(2) Amending paragraph (b) by adding at the end thereof a new subparagraph (6), to read as follows:
"(6) Periods of active duty of members of the Reserve of the Public Health Service commencing after the date of enactment of the Military Selective Service Act of 1967 other than when assigned to staff any of the various offices and bureaus of the Public Health Service, including the National Institutes of Health, or the Coast Guard or the Bureau of Prisons of the Department of Justice, or the Environmental Science Services Administration."
(n) Section 1622.42, Class IV—C: Aliens, is amended by adding thereto a new paragraph (d), to read as follows:
"(d) In Class IV–C shall be placed an alien who has registered at a time when he was required by the selective service law to present himself for and submit to registration and thereafter has acquired status within one of the groups of persons exempt from registration."
(o) Paragraph (a) and (b) of section 1622.50, Class V–A: Registrant Over the Age of Liability for Military Service, are amended to read as follows:
"(a) In Class V–A shall be placed every registrant who has attained the twenty-sixth anniversary of the day of his birth except—
"(1) those registrants who are in active military service in the armed forces and are in Class I–C,
"(2) those registrants who are performing civilian work contributing to the maintenance of the national health, safety, or interest in accordance with the order of the local board and are in Class I–W,
"(3) those registrants who have consented to induction,
"(4) those registrants who on June 19, 1951, or at any time thereafter, were deferred under the provisions of section 6 of the Military Selective Service Act of 1967, and
"(5) registrants who are in a medical, dental, or allied specialist category."
"(b) In Class V–A shall be placed every registrant who has attained the twenty-eighth anniversary of the day of his birth except—
"(1) those registrants who are in active military service in the armed forces and are in Class I–C,
"(2) those registrants who are performing civilian work contributing to the maintenance of the national health, safety, or interest in accordance with the order of the local board and are in Class I–W,
"(3) those registrants who have consented to induction,
"(4) those registrants who on June 19, 1951, or at any time thereafter, were deferred under any provisions of section 6 of the Military Selective Service Act of 1967 other than the provisions of subsection (c) (2) (A) of such section which were in effect prior to September 3, 1963, and
"(5) those registrants who are in a medical, dental, or allied specialist category."
6. Part 1626, Appeal to Appeal Board, is amended as follows:
(a) Subparagraph (3) and (4) of paragraph (b) of section 1626.24, Review by Appeal Board, are rescinded.
(b) Section 1626.25, Special Provisions When Appeal Involves Claim that Registrant Is a Conscientious Objector, is hereby rescinded.
7. Paragraph (a) of section 1630.4, of Part 1630, Volunteers, is amended to read as follows:
"(a) Disregarding all other grounds for deferment, he would be classified in Class II–A, Class II–C, or Class III–A;"
8. Part 1631, Quotas and Calls, is amended as follows:
(a) Section 1631.4, Calls by the Secretary of Defense, is amended to read as follows:
"(a) The Secretary of Defense may from time to time place with the Director of Selective Service a call or requisition for a specified number of men required for induction into the Armed Forces. The Secretary of Defense may also from time to time place with the Director of Selective Service a call or requisition for a specified number of men in any medical, dental, or allied specialist category required for induction into the Armed Forces.
"(b) When future needs of the Armed Forces may require it, the Secretary of Defense also may from time to time place with the Director of Selective Service a call or requisition for a specified number of men for induction into the Armed Forces, designating the age group or groups from which such men shall be selected.
"(c) All registrants born within any calendar year shall constitute an age group within the meaning of this section.
"(d) The Secretary of Defense shall present such calls or requisition to the Director of Selective Service not less than 60 days prior to the period during which the delivery and induction of such men are to be accomplished."
(b) Paragraph (a) of section 1631.5, Calls by the Director of Selective Service, is amended to read as follows:
"(a) The Director of Selective Service shall, upon receipt of a call or requisition from the Secretary of Defense for a specified number of men to be inducted into the Armed Forces, allocate such call or requisition among the several States."
(c) Section 1631.7, Action by Local Board Upon Receipt of Notice of Call, is amended as follows:
(1) Paragraph (a) is amended by adding the phrase, "When a call is placed without designation of age group or groups," immediately before the phrase "Each local board . . ." at the beginning of the first sentence so that the beginning will read as follows: "When a call is placed without designation of age group or groups, each local board, upon receiving a . . ."; and is further amended by striking from the second proviso thereof the phrase "if an appeal is not pending in his case and the period during which an appeal may be taken has expired," so that the beginning of the second proviso will read as follows: "And provided further, That a registrant classified in Class I–A or Class I–A-0 who has volunteered for induction may be selected and ordered for induction. . . ."
(2) Paragraph (b) is redesignated as paragraph (c) and a new paragraph (b) is prescribed to read as follows:
"(b) When a call is placed with designation of age group or groups, each local board, upon receiving a Notice of Call on Local Board (SSS Form 201) from the State Director of Selective Service for a specified number of men to be delivered for induction, shall select and order to report for induction the number of men required to fill the call from among its registrants who have been classified in Class I–A and Class I–A-0 and who have been found acceptable for service in the Armed Forces and to whom the local board has mailed a Statement of Acceptability (DD Form 62) at least 21 days before the date fixed for induction; Provided, That a registrant classified in Class I—A or Class I—A-0 who is a delinquent may be selected and ordered to report for induction to fill an induction call notwithstanding the fact that he has not been found acceptable for service in the Armed Forces and has not been mailed a Statement of Acceptability (DD Form 62); And provided further, That a registrant classified in Class I—A or Class I—A-0 who has volunteered for induction may be selected and ordered to report for induction notwithstanding the fact that he has not been found acceptable for service in the Armed Forces and regardless of whether a Statement of Acceptability (DD Form 62) has been mailed to him. Such registrants shall be selected and ordered to report for induction in the following order:
"(1) Delinquents who have attained the age of 19 years in the order of their dates of birth with the oldest being selected first.
"(2) Volunteers who have not attained the age of 26 years in the sequence in which they have volunteered for induction.
"(3) Registrants in the designated age group; and registrants who previously have been deferred in Class I—S--C after attaining the age of 19 years, or who have requested and have been granted a deferment in Class II—S after the enactment of the Military Selective Service Act of 1967, and who are no longer so deferred, shall be considered as being within the age group called regardless of their actual age. These registrants shall be integrated and called according to the month and day of their birth, the oldest first. Registrants who have been deferred in Class I—S—C or Class IT—S and have been integrated with a prime age group under the provisions of this paragraph shall, for the purposes of selection and call, thereafter be considered a member of such age group."
(d) Section 1631.8, Registrants Who Shall Be Inducted Without Calls, is amended by adding at the end thereof a new paragraph (c), to read as follows:
"(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any registrant who has failed or refused to report for induction shall continue to remain liable for induction and when available shall be immediately inducted."
9. Subparagraph (3) of paragraph (b) of section 1632.20 of Part 1632, Delivery and Induction, is amended to read as follows:
"(3) For each registrant found not qualified for service in the Armed Forces, file the original Record of Induction (DD Form 47), the original Report of Medical Examination (Standard Form 88), the copy of the Report of Medical History (Standard Form 89) and any copy of the Application for Voluntary Induction (SSS Form 254) in the Cover Sheet (SSS Form 101) and forward to the State Director of Selective Service the copy of the Record of Induction (DD Form 47)."
10. Part 1642, Delinquents, is amended as follows:
(a) Section 1642.10, Restriction on Classification and Induction of Delinquents, is amended to read as follows:
"No delinquent registrant shall be placed in Class I—A, Class I—A-0, or Class I-0 under the provisions of section 1642.12 or shall be ordered to report for induction under the provisions of section 1642.13 or section 1631.7 of this chapter, or, in the case of a conscientious objector opposed to noncombatant training and service, ordered to report for civilian work in lieu of induction, unless the local board has declared him to be a delinquent in accordance with the provisions of section 1642.4 and thereafter has not removed him from such delinquency status."
(b) Section 1642.12, Classification of Delinquent Registrant, is amended to read as follows:
"Any delinquent registrant between the ages of 18 years and 6 months and 26 years and any delinquent registrant between the ages of 26 and 28 who was deferred under the provisions of section 6 (c) (2) (A) of the Military Selective Service Act of 1967 which were in effect prior to September 3, 1963, and any delinquent registrant between the ages of 26 and 35 who on June 19, 1951, was, or thereafter has been or may be, deferred under any other provision of section 6 of such Act, including the provisions of subsection (c) (2) (A) in effect on and after September 3, 1963, may be classified in or reclassified into Class I—A, Class I—A-0 or Class I-0, whichever is applicable, regardless of other circumstances: Provided, That a delinquent registrant who by reason of his service in the Armed Forces is eligible for classification into Class IV—A may not be classified or reclassified into Class I—A, Class I—A-0 or Class I-0 under this section unless such action is specifically authorized by the Director of Selective Service."
(c) Section 1642.13, Certain Delinquents to Be Ordered to Report for Induction or for Civilian Work in Lieu of Induction, is amended to read as follows:
"The local board shall order each delinquent registrant between the ages of 18 years and 6 months and 26 years and each delinquent registrant between the ages of 26 and 28 who was deferred under the provisions of section 6(c) (2) (A) of the Military Selective Service Act of 1967 which were in effect prior to September 3, 1963, and each delinquent registrant between the ages of 26 and 35 who on June 19, 1951, was, or thereafter has been or may be, deferred under any other provisions of section 6 of such Act, including the provisions of subsection (c) (2) (A) in effect on and after September 3, 1963, who is classified in or reclassified into Class I—A or Class I—A-0 to report for induction in the manner provided in section 1631.7 of this chapter, or in the case of a delinquent registrant classified or reclassified into Class I-0, the local board shall determine the type of civilian work it is appropriate for him to perform and shall order him to perform such civilian work in lieu of induction in accordance with the provisions of Part 1660 of this chapter, unless in either case (a) it has already issued such order, or (b) pursuant to a written request of the United States Attorney, the local board determines not to order such registrant to report for induction or civilian work."
(d) Section 1642.14, Personal Appearance, Reopening, and Appeal, is amended to read as follows:
"(a) When a delinquent registrant is classified in or reclassified into Class I—A, Class I—A-0 or Class I-0 under the provisions of this part, a personal appearance may be requested and shall be granted under the same circumstances as in any other case.
"(b) The classification of a delinquent registrant who is classified in or reclassified into Class I—A, Class I—A-0 or Class I-0 under the provisions of this part may be reopened at any time before induction or before the date he is to report for civilian work in the discretion of the local board without regard to the restrictions against reopening prescribed in section 1625.2 of this chapter.
"(c) When a delinquent registrant is classified in or reclassified into Class I—A, Class I—A-0 or Class I-0 under the provisions of this part, an appeal may be taken under the same circumstances and by the same persons as in any other case."
(e) Section 1642.15, Continuous Duty of Certain Registrants to Report for Induction or for Civilian Work in Lieu of Induction, is amended to read as follows:
"Regardless of the time when or the circumstances under which a registrant fails or has failed to report for induction pursuant to an Order to Report for Induction (SSS Form 252) or pursuant to an Order for Transferred Man to Report for Induction (SSS Form 253), or fails or has failed to report for civilian work in lieu of induction pursuant to an Order to Report for Civilian Work and Statement of Employer (SSS Form 153), it shall thereafter be his continuing duty from day to day to report for induction or for civilian work in lieu of induction to his own local board, and to each local board whose area he enters or in whose area he remains."
(f) Section 1642.21, Procedure, is amended as follows:
(1) Paragraph (c) is redesignated as paragraph (e).
(2) New paragraph (c) and (d) are prescribed to read as follows:
"(c) If a delinquent registrant who is in Class I-0 reports to or is brought before a local board other than his own local board, the local board to which he reports or before which he is brought shall advise his own local board by telegram or other expeditious means that the delinquent has reported to or has been brought before such local board, and that he will be ordered under the provisions of Part 1660 to perform civilian work deemed appropriate by such local board for the registrant to perform in lieu of induction, if it is satisfactory to his own local board. The registrant's own local board shall reply by telegram or other expeditious means.
"(d) If the registrant's own local board advises that the registrant is delinquent because he has failed to respond to an Order to Report for Civilian Work and Statement of Employer (SSS Form 153), the local board at which the registrant appeared or was brought shall issue to him written instructions regarding the date and place he is to report for work and the type of work he is to perform. Whenever necessary, travel, meals and lodging may be furnished the registrant under the provisions of section 1660.21 (b) of this chapter."
(3) Paragraph (c), as redesignated, is amended to read as follows:
"(e) If the registrant's own local board advises that no Order to Report for Induction (SSS Form 252) or Order for Transferred Man to Report for Induction (SSS Form 253) or Order to Report for Civilian Work and Statement of Employer (SSS Form 153) has been issued to such registrant or that the registrant is no longer a delinquent, it shall advise the local board before which the registrant has appeared or has been brought of the action to be taken with reference to such registrant."
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House
June 30, 1967