By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Under charter from the United States Congress, the American Red Cross represents the American people's concern for their armed forces, and in this capacity swiftly extended the full range of its morale and welfare services for the armed forces to our men in Viet-Nam as well as their families at home.
The American Red Cross cooperates unceasingly with the International Committee of the Red Cross for the full protection of prisoners of war.
Also under its Congressional Charter, the American Red Cross is charged with specific responsibilities for citizens threatened or affected by disaster, and last year assisted victims of over 14,000 disaster situations.
The American Red Cross as one of the 106 members of the League of Red Cross Societies joins in helping victims of disasters, famines, epidemics, and civil strife around the world.
It provides a network of regional blood centers through which Americans may donate blood for the benefit of the sick and injured, thus contributing to the health resources of the nation.
The American Red Cross represents a potent force for safety and health as demonstrated by over 4,000,000 certificates issued in 1965-66 to persons completing Red Cross water safety, small craft, first aid and home nursing courses.
This year marks the 50th anniversary of the organized Red Cross Youth Program which provides practical learning experiences in responsible service to communities, to our nation and to the peoples of the world.
Over 2,000,000 Americans volunteer annually through the American Red Cross to help the suffering, the lonely, the disadvantaged in a wide range of community projects and government programs embodying the highest ideals of voluntary humanitarian service.
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America and Honorary Chairman of the American National Red Cross, do hereby designate March 1967 as Red Cross Month; and I urge all Americans to give this voluntary organization their full support for the benefit of all our citizens.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this thirtieth day of January in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-first.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
By the President: 
DEAN RUSK 
Secretary of State