By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
With each passing generation, the words of the poet—"Children are what the mothers are"—take on greater meaning. We become ever more aware that the quality of our society depends in large measure upon the training our children receive in the early years of their lives.
The American mother has borne the major responsibility for that early training.
The fortitude to brave the frontier, the courage to bear our flag in battle, the compassion to help the needy and the weak at home and in distant lands—all these have come to our people through traits of character instilled by our mothers.
It is fitting that we should set aside one day each year to pay tribute to our mothers—to thank God for their loving devotion, their moral teaching, and their steadfastness in all the weathers of our souls.
To this end, the Congress more than fifty years ago designated the second Sunday in May of each year as Mother's Day and requested the President to issue a proclamation calling for its observance.
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, pursuant to the joint resolution of May 8, 1914, do hereby request that Sunday, May 14, 1967, be observed as Mother's Day; and I direct the appropriate officials of the Government to display the flag of the United States on all Government buildings on that day.
I call upon all Americans on that day to pay special tribute to mothers—to our own mothers and to the mothers of our children—through the display of the flag at their homes or other suitable places, through prayers, and through other acts of love and devotion.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this tenth day of May in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-first.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
By the President: 
DEAN RUSK 
Secretary of State