WHEREAS Federal legislation enacted in recent years has established numerous manpower programs to improve the employability of disadvantaged, unemployed, and underemployed persons; and
WHEREAS administration of these manpower and related service programs requires extensive participation of State and local governments and nongovernment agencies; and
WHEREAS experience has demonstrated that close coordination of the operating programs at the local, State, and Federal levels is essential to their successful, effective, and economical implementation:
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 637 of the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2979), and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. 
Policy.
 (a) Cooperative planning and execution of manpower training and supportive manpower service programs is hereby established as the policy of the Federal Government.
(b) Each Federal executive department or agency administering manpower training or supportive manpower, service programs shall, to, the extent consistent with law, carry out its programs and exercise its functions so as to further the policy herein enunciated.
SEC. 2. 
The Cooperative Area Manpower Planning System.
 (a) The Cooperative Area Manpower Planning System (hereinafter referred to as CAMPS) is hereby recognized as a primary instrument for carrying out the policy stated in section 1 above.
(b) The Departments of Labor; Health, Education, and Welfare; Commerce; Housing and Urban Development; Agriculture; and the Interior; the Office of Economic Opportunity; and the Civil Service Commission, together with their affiliated organizations and such additional Federal executive departments and agencies as may be mutually agreed upon by them, shall participate in CAMPS for the purposes of cooperatively planning and executing manpower programs and supportive manpower service programs in urban and rural areas.
(c) Each department and agency included in CAMPS shall participate in manpower coordinating committees at the national and regional levels. The Secretary of Labor shall designate the chairmen of such committees. To the extent practical and necessary, each such department and agency shall also participate, either directly or through affiliated State, local, or nongovernmental organizations with which it maintains grant-in-aid or contractual relationships, in cooperative manpower planning at State and area levels.
(d) To the extent consistent with law, each department or agency included in CAMPS shall carry out its responsibilities with respect to Federal assistance, State and local planning, and utilization of resources so as to further the purposes of this order.
SEC. 3. 
Administrative services.
 In compliance with provisions of applicable law, and as necessary to effectuate the purposes of this order, the Department of Labor shall provide or arrange for administrative services and staff support for all CAMPS coordinating committees, and each Federal department or agency participating in CAMPS shall furnish such information and other assistance as may be necessary and available.
SEC. 4. 
Construction.
 Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any Federal department or agency or the head thereof, or any function vested by law in or assigned pursuant to law to any such department, agency, or head, to the authority of any other department, agency, or head.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House
August 15, 1968