By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Establishment of the Commission. (a) There is hereby established a National. Commission on the Causes and Prevention of Violence (hereinafter referred to as the "Commission").
(b) The Commission shall be composed of:
Dr. Milton Eisenhower, Chairman
Congressman Hale Boggs
Archbishop Terence J. Cooke
Ambassador Patricia Harris
Senator Philip. A. Hart
Judge A. Leon Higginbotham
Eric Hoffer
Senator Roman Hruska
Albert E. Jenner, Jr.
Congressman William. M. McCulloch,
The President from time to time may appoint additional members to the Commission, and may designate additional officers thereof.
SEC. 2. Functions of the Commission. The Commission shall investigate and make recommendations with respect to:
(a) The causes and prevention of lawless acts of violence in our society, including assassination, murder and assault;
(b) The causes and prevention of disrespect for law and order, of disrespect for public officials, and of violent disruptions of public order by individuals and groups; and
(c) Such other matters as the President may place before the Commission.
SEC. 3. Compensation of Members of the Commission. (a) Members of the Commission who are otherwise compensated by the United States for full-time service shall serve without compensation in addition to that received for their full-time service; but they shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law.
(b) Other Members of the Commission shall receive compensation in accordance with law when engaged in the actual performance of duties vested in the Commission. In addition they shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5703, for persons in the Government service employed intermittently.
SEC. 4. Staff of the Commission. (a) The Commission shall have an Executive Director, appointed by the President, who shall receive such compensation as may be directed by the President in accordance with law.
(b) The Commission is authorized to appoint such additional personnel as it deems necessary, to fix their compensation in accordance with law, and to obtain services in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 3109.
SEC. 5. Cooperation by Executive Departments and Agencies: (a) The Commission, acting through its Chairman, is authorized to request from any executive department or agency any information and assistance deemed necessary to carry out its functions under this Order. Each department or agency is directed, to the extent permitted by law and within the limits of available funds, to furnish information and assistance to the Commission.
(b) The General Services Administration shall provide administrative services for the Commission.
SEC. 6. Report and Termination. The Commission shall present its report and recommendations as soon as practicable, but not later than one year from the date of this Order: The Commission shall terminate thirty days following the submission of its final report or one year from the date of this Order, whichever is earlier.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House
June 10, 1968