By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The year 1968 has been designated by the United Nations as International Human Rights Year, and I have so proclaimed it for the United States.
In this country and in many other nations of the world substantial progress has been made in expanding human rights in practice, as well as in principle.
Yet even during this Human Rights Year, the world has witnessed—on several continents—a series of tragic acts that have denied human rights by aggression, terror, starvation, and other forms of coercion. The conscience of the world has been stunned by these acts. Men are beginning to understand that the rule of law and justice is imperative if nations are not to perish under a reign of force and violence.
More than ever it is essential that the minds of men in every nation be focused upon the necessity for world peace through law if mankind is to realize the hopes and aspirations enshrined in the United Nations Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
To that end, the World Conference on World Peace Through Law is meeting in Geneva this month. We hope and trust that the efforts of this eminent group of lawyers and judges will enhance the role of law and legal institutions—so that the means for peaceful settlement of disputes between men and nations may be achieved and accepted by all.
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, believing that there should be set aside one day in Human Rights Year on which appropriate observance of the importance of the role of law to mankind's search for world peace and universal respect for human rights can be publicly recognized, do hereby proclaim September 16, 1968, as World Law Day in the United States. I call upon all citizens of the United States, all public and private officials, members of the legal profession, public and private organizations, and all men of good will to arrange public ceremonies on World Law Day in courts, schools and universities, and other public places in order that we may rededicate ourselves to fulfilling man's need of international law for world peace.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 14th day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-third.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON