WHEREAS the Health Resources Advisory Committee was established on August 5, 1950, at the direction of the President, and has been in operation continuously since that date; and
WHEREAS, in conformity with section 4 (j) of the Selective Service Act of 1948, as amended (now the Military Selective Service Act of 1967), the National Advisory Committee on the Selection of Physicians, Dentists, and Allied Specialists was established by Executive Order No. 10166 of October 4, 1950, as amended; and
WHEREAS, in view of the similarity of the health manpower advisory functions of the two committees, the members of the Health Resources Advisory Committee were also designated as members of the National Advisory Committee on the Selection of Physicians, Dentists, and Allied Specialists; and
WHEREAS that common membership was designed to avoid any duplication of functions and to minimize the opportunity for conflicting Federal policies or competing requirements with respect to the use of health manpower; and
WHEREAS that common membership arrangement was discontinued in 1961 and the two committees have had separate memberships since that time; and
WHEREAS, on the basis of experience under both arrangements, it has been determined that the purposes of the two committees can be better accomplished and the public interest would be better served if they share a common membership:
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 303 of the National Security Act of 1947, as amended, and section 4 (j) of the Military Selective Service Act of 1967, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. (a) There is hereby established the National Advisory Committee on the Selection of Physicians, Dentists, and Allied Specialists, which shall be composed of such members as may be appointed by the President pursuant to section 3 of this order.
(b) The Committee shall perform the functions prescribed by section 4(j) of the Military Selective Service Act of 1967, as amended.
SEC. 2. (a) There is hereby established the National Health Resources Advisory Committee, which shall be composed of such members as may be appointed by the President pursuant to section 3 of this order.
(b) The Committee shall advise the Director of the Office of Emergency Planning concerning the allocation, utilization, and administration of health resources, including manpower, material, and facilities under various mobilization situations and on problems of the nongovernmental health community relating to emergency preparedness. In carrying out these advisory functions, the Committee shall provide advice to the Director concerning, among other things, improved utilization and conservation of health manpower, health manpower data collection and interchange systems, the impact of warlike emergencies on the health industry and health services, the national medical emergency stockpile programs, and the vulnerability of the health industry.
SEC. 3. The Committees established by this order shall have a common membership consisting of twelve members to be appointed by the President from private life. The President shall designate one of those members to serve as chairman of both Committees. Such members shall, in conformity with section 4(j) of the Military Selective Service Act of 1967, as amended, be selected from among individuals who are outstanding in medicine, dentistry, and the sciences allied thereto.
SEC. 4. (a) In carrying out their functions, the Committees shall, as appropriate, consult with the Director of Selective Service and such other officials and agencies as may be appropriate, including the Secretary of Defense and officials of the Departments of the Army, Navy, and Air Force, the Department of Labor, the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, and the Office of Emergency Planning. The Director of Selective Service and the Director of the Office of Emergency Planning shall designate representatives from the Selective Service System and the Office of Emergency Planning, respectively, who shall attend all meetings of these Committees.
(b) All executive departments and agencies shall cooperate with the Committees established by this order, and furnish them such available information as the Committees may need for the accomplishment of their functions.
SEC. 5. The Selective Service System and the Office of Emergency Planning shall, under such arrangements as may be mutually agreed upon, provide administrative and staff support and defray the necessary expenses of the Committees established by this order, including the compensation of members thereof within the limits of applicable law. The Selective Service System shall, within the limits of applicable law, defray the necessary expenses of those State and local Committees which may, in conformity with section 4(j) of the Military Selective Service Act of 1967, as amended, be designated by the National Advisory Committee on the Selection of Physicians, Dentists, and Allied Specialists
SEC. 6. In order to permit the establishment of a single membership for the two Committees, the appointment of present members of the two Committees shall expire as of the date of this order. Executive Order No. 10166 and Executive Order No. 10185 are hereby revoked.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House
June 24, 1968