WHEREAS, at a meeting of the Cabinet on February 25, 1965, I designated the Director of the Office of Emergency Planning to serve as liaison with the Governors of the fifty States for the purpose of establishing and maintaining better understanding, increased cooperation, and improving the lines of communication between the President and State governors and between the executive agencies of the Federal Government and State governments; and
WHEREAS, the Director of the Office of Emergency Planning was designated because his office, through its national office and regional offices, is in constant contact with the State governors with respect to cooperative programs dealing with continuity of government, mobilization of resources, and Federal assistance in major natural disasters; and
WHEREAS, this function assigned to the Office of Emergency Planning has been performed for more than three years without the employment of any additional personnel, and has significantly advanced Federal-State relations, contributing to more efficient service to the American people, through many improvements in effective administration of jointly financed Federal-State programs, simplification of grant-in-aid procedures, expedition of decisions, consolidation of related programs, and advance consultation on proposed changes in federal programs and regulations affecting state and local governments; and
WHEREAS, during such period the Office of Emergency Planning has identified and resolved at least 1,300 questions, problems or complaints raised by the Governors during conferences which were attended by 285 top ranking Federal officials, 300 Federal regional and field officials, and more than 2,000 state officials; and
WHEREAS a resolution unanimously adopted by the National Governors' Conference in Cincinnati, Ohio, on July 24, 1968, described this liaison program as having "resulted in the best working partnership in the modern history of our Nation between the Governors and the Executive Branch of the Federal Government," and urged the President and the Congress "to give formal status to, and continue in the future . . . the existing Federal-State relations program being carried on by the agency now established and functioning."
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 2 (e) of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1958 (72 Stat. 1799) and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. In addition to his other duties, the Director of the Office of Emergency Planning shall also continue to act as the President's liaison with the Governors of the States and Territories, with the title of Assistant to the President for Federal-State Relations.
SEC. 2. The Office of Emergency Planning, its Regional Directors, staff and employees, shall assist the Director in carrying out these additional responsibilities. To accomplish continued and effective liaison with and assistance to the Governors and State agencies, the Office of Emergency Planning shall continue to serve as the clearing house for the prompt handling and solution of Federal-State problems involving the executive branches of the Federal and State governments.
SEC. 3. (a) All Federal departments, agencies, and Regional Federal Executive Boards shall continue to extend full cooperation and assistance to the Assistant to the President for Federal-State Relations and to the Office of Emergency Planning in carrying out their responsibilities under this order. The Assistant to the President for Federal-State Relations and the Office of Emergency Planning shall be available to and assist, upon request, all Federal departments and agencies with problems which may arise between them and the executive agencies of the States and Territories.
(b) The head of each Federal department and agency shall designate an appropriate official with broad general experience in his department or agency, upon request by the Assistant to the President for Federal-State Relations, to serve as a point of contact in carrying out Federal-State liaison activities under this order.
SEC. 4. Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any Federal department or agency, or function thereof, to the authority of the Director of the Office of Emergency Planning or the Assistant to the President for Federal-State Relations.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House
August 31, 1968