By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas,
 pursuant to section 3(a) of the Great Lakes Pilotage Act of 1960 (74 Stat. 259; 46 U.S.C. 216a (a)), the President designated and announced by Proclamation No. 3385 of December 22, 1960, those United States waters of the Great Lakes in which registered vessels of the United States and foreign vessels are required to have in their service a United States registered pilot or a Canadian registered pilot for the waters concerned;
Whereas
 the functions, powers, and duties of the Secretary of Commerce under the Great Lakes Pilotage Act of 1960 were transferred to and vested in the Secretary of Transportation by section 6 (a) (4) of the Department of Transportation Act (80 Stat. 931; 49 U.S.C. 1655(a) (4)); and
Whereas,
 having due regard to the public interest, the effective utilization of navigable waters, marine safety, and the foreign relations of the United States, I find that an adjustment should be made in the prescribed boundaries of District 3:
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes, including section 3 (a) of the Great Lakes Pilotage Act of 1960, do hereby proclaim that Proclamation No. 3385 is hereby amended as follows:
1. The third paragraph is amended by deleting the words "Secretary of Commerce" and inserting in lieu thereof the words "Secretary of Transportation".
2. Subparagraph (3) of the third paragraph is amended to read as follows:
"(3) District 3. All United States waters of the St. Marys River, Sault Sainte Marie Locks and approaches thereto between latitude 45°59' N. at the southern approach and longitude 84°33' W. at the northern approach."
These amendments shall be effective thirty days after the date of this proclamation.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-second.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON