By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States and as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
Paragraphs 1, 2, and 3 of Executive Order No. 11174 of September 1, 1964, entitled "Establishing the Presidential Service Certificate and the Presidential Service Badge", are hereby amended to read as follows:
"1. Certificate established. The White House Service Certificate is hereby reestablished as the Presidential Service Certificate, to be awarded in the name of the President of the United States to members of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Coast Guard who have been assigned to the White House for a period of at least one year subsequent to January 20, 1961.
"2. Award of the Certificate. The Presidential Service Certificate, the design of which accompanies and is hereby made a part of this Order, shall be awarded by the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Navy, the Secretary of the Air Force, or, when the Coast Guard is not operating as a service in the Navy, the Secretary of Transportation, to military personnel of their respective services.
"3. Badge established. The White House Service Badge is replaced by the Presidential Service Badge, the design of which accompanies and is hereby made a part of this Order. The Presidential Service Badge may be awarded to any member of the Armed Forces assigned to duty in the White House by the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Navy, the Secretary of the Air Force, or, when the Coast Guard is not operating as a service in the Navy, the Secretary of Transportation, upon recommendation of the Armed Forces Aide to the President, to military personnel of their respective services. The Badge may he worn as a part of the uniform of those individuals upon award of the Presidential Service Certificate under such regulations as the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Navy, and the Secretary of the Air Force, with the approval of the Secretary of Defense, and, when the Coast Guard is not operating as a service in the Navy, the Commandant of the Coast Guard, with the approval of the Secretary of Transportation, may severally prescribe."
LYNDON B. JOHNSON