By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
Genuine concern for his fellowman has always distinguished the American citizen. That concern finds daily expression in countless acts of voluntary service to the less fortunate, the sick, and the injured. 
No manifestation of this generosity of spirit is more expressive, and no gift more priceless in time of personal crisis, than the donation of one's blood. The voluntary blood donor truly gives life itself. 
Mobilized through the American Red Cross and the American Association of Blood Banks, and encouraged by modern medical techniques for simple and efficient collection and use of blood and its therapeutic components, the ranks of the voluntary blood donor have continued to grow and to make unparalleled contributions to the health of our people. 
With the advent of the New Year, it is appropriate and timely to pay high tribute to our Nation's voluntary blood donors for their generosity and to encourage more people-both women and men, and both the younger and the older-to join their worthy ranks by providing a steady and increasing supply of blood during each month of the year ahead. 
To this end, the Congress by Senate Joint Resolution 154 has requested the President to issue a proclamation designating the month of January 1970 as National Blood Donor Month. 
Now, Therefore, I, Richard M. Nixon,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the month of January 1970 as National Blood Donor Month. I call upon the public media, the blood-banking and medical and health facilities of our country, and the public at large to pay special tribute and honor during that month to the voluntary blood donor and to encourage, by all appropriate means, increasing numbers of people to be voluntary blood donors. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of December, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-fourth. 
RICHARD NIXON