By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
For more than a century, men and women of good will have recognized one symbol as being representative of human compassion.
That symbol, revered throughout the world, is a banner bearing a red cross on a field of white. Under it, citizens of all nations strive to bring aid and comfort to the stricken, to heal the sick, and to serve those in distress.
As a member of that world fraternity, our American Red Cross helps each of us to help our fellow man.
Through its concern and aid for members of our Armed Forces in 30 countries around the globe, the Red Cross last year gave help to great numbers of servicemen and their families.
Each year, the Red Cross brings emergency aid and long-range assistance to victims of major catastrophes, and help to sufferers of thousands of local disasters. For the past several years it has been intensifying its efforts to involve all segments of society in the great work of volunteering to help others.
Every day thousands of hospitals and physicians look to the Red Cross to provide life-saving blood and blood products for their patients. Nearly fifty percent of all the blood used in this country comes from this source.
Each year millions of Americans of all ages participate in Red Cross classes, learning the skills of first aid, home care of the sick and injured, swimming and lifesaving.
More than two million trained volunteers devote their time and abilities to working with patients in military and civilian hospitals, clinics, and homes for the aged, with youth, and in community programs seeking to meet the needs of disadvantaged people.
To continue its mission, the American Red Cross must rely upon us, the people of America, from whom it receives its sole support. In March 1969, the Red Cross will ask for our help. We owe it to our communities and our country to respond generously to that appeal.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon,
 President of the United States of America, and Honorary Chairman of the American National Red Cross, do hereby designate March 1969 as Red Cross Month. I urge all Americans to maintain the strength of the Red Cross by volunteering their time when they can, and by contributing as generously as they can.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-third.
RICHARD NIXON