By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
From its beginnings this Nation has honored the common man and has given him unprecedented freedom. It has drawn its strength, in turn, from the determination of the common citizen to use that freedom in his own unique way—from his capacity to be uncommon.
It was over three centuries ago that small bands of free men laid the foundations of our economic and political system. But the spirit which characterized their efforts is still the essence of the American character. The small businessmen of America best manifest this tradition of individual enterprise.
The American economy has grown affluent beyond the visions of our forefathers. Yet a very important part of it is still represented by the self-owned business: the little shop, the small factory, the family enterprise. They encompass all creeds and races; they exercise their imaginations and pursue their aspirations in a wide variety of enterprises. They provide goods and services of the highest quality; they offer employment opportunities to millions. Their prosperity is fundamental to our economic well-being.
We should recognize, however, that the continued vitality of small business is a matter of political and social concern; a society which encourages free competition cannot easily be subjected to arbitrary control from the top. And a society which opens constructive business opportunities to all of its citizens can liberate and uplift the isolated minorities at the bottom.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week beginning May 11, 1969, as Small Business Week. I encourage chambers of commerce, boards of trade, and other public and private organizations to observe this week by recognizing the contributions which small business enterprises have made to our national development. I urge them to find appropriate means for paying tribute to the accomplishments of small business, and I trust they will encourage small businessmen to achieve new successes in the future.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-seventh day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-third.
RICHARD NIXON