WHEREAS rural America is vitally important to this Nation's total economy and society; and
WHEREAS there is a need to provide expanded employment opportunities and more attractive living conditions outside the metropolitan areas; and
WHEREAS a viable rural America would offer an opportunity for farmers and other rural residents to share in the economic growth of the country:
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the United States, and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Establishment of the Council. (a) There is hereby established the Council for Rural Affairs (herein-after referred to as "the Council").
(b) The President of the United States shall preside over meetings of the Council. The Vice President shall preside in the absence of the President.
(c) The Council shall be composed of the following:
The Vice President of the United States
Secretary of Agriculture
Secretary of Interior
Secretary of Commerce
Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
Secretary of Labor
Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers
Director of the Bureau of the Budget
Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity
and such other heads of departments and agencies as the President may from time to time direct.
SEC. 2. Functions of the Council. The Council shall advise and assist the President with respect to the further development of the non-metropolitan areas of the country and shall perform such other duties as the President may from time to time prescribe. In addition to such duties, the Council is directed to:
(1) Assist the President in the development of policies for rural areas, which shall include consideration of the affairs of the smaller cities and towns which lie outside the metropolitan areas.
(2) Secure information on the problems confronting rural America, identify their causes, and develop means to deal with them by using available programs or initiating new ones.
(3) Foster effective use and coordination of Federal programs in the non-metropolitan areas in order to improve the delivery of public services to the people.
(4) Encourage the fullest cooperation between Federal, State, and local governments, with special concern for local initiative and local decisionmaking.
(5) Ensure that in the development of policies and programs concerning rural affairs, the relationships between urban, suburban, and rural areas are taken into account.
(6) Encourage the most effective role possible for voluntary organizations in dealing with rural problems and their solutions.
(7) Encourage an improved geographical distribution of the population of the United States.
(8) Keep the President advised on progress in meeting national objectives.
SEC. 3. Administrative arrangements. In compliance with provisions of applicable law, and as necessary to effectuate the purposes of this order, (1) the White House Office shall provide or arrange for supporting clerical, administrative, and other staff services for the Council, and (2) each Federal department and agency which is represented on the Council shall furnish the Council such information and other assistance as may be available.
SEC. 4. Construction. Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any department, establishment, or other instrumentality of the executive branch of the Federal government or the head thereof, or any function vested by law in or assigned pursuant to law to any such agency or head, to the authority of any other such agency or head or as abrogating, modifying, or restricting any such function in any manner.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
November 13, 1969