By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Functions of the Secretary of Commerce. (a) The Secretary of Commerce (hereinafter referred to as "the Secretary") shall 
(1) Coordinate as consistent with law the plans, programs, and operations of the Federal Government which affect or may contribute to the establishment, preservation and strengthening of minority business enterprise.
(2) Promote the mobilization of activities and resources of State and local governments, businesses and trade associations, universities, foundations, professional organizations and volunteer and other groups towards the growth of minority business enterprises and facilitate the coordination of the efforts of these groups with those of Federal departments and agencies.
(3) Establish a center for, the development, collection, summarization and dissemination of information that will be helpful to persons and organizations throughout the nation in undertaking or promoting the establishment and successful operation of minority business enterprises.
(b) The Secretary, as he deems necessary or appropriate to enable him to better fulfill the responsibilities vested in him by subsection (a), may—
(1) Develop, with the participation of other Federal departments and agencies as appropriate, comprehensive plans of Federal action and propose such changes in Federal programs as may be required.
(2) Require the submission of information from such departments and agencies necessary for him to carry out the purposes of this order.
(3) Convene for purposes of coordination meetings of the heads of such departments and agencies, or their designees, whose, programs and activities may affect or contribute to the purposes of this order.
(4) Convene business leaders, educators, and other representatives of the private sector engaged in assisting the development of minority business enterprise or who could contribute to its development to propose, evaluate, and coordinate governmental and private activities in furtherance of the objectives of this order.
(5) Confer with and advise officials of State and local governments.
(6) Provide the managerial and organizational framework through which joint or collaborative undertakings with Federal departments or agencies or private organizations can be planned and implemented.
(7) Recommend appropriate legislative or executive actions.
SEC. 2. Establishment of the Advisory Council for Minority Enterprise. (a) There is hereby established the Advisory Council for Minority Enterprise (hereinafter referred to as "the Council").
(b) The Council shall be composed of members appointed by the President from among persons, including members of minority groups and representatives from minority business enterprises, knowledgeable and dedicated to the purposes of this order. The members shall serve for a term of two years and may be reappointed.
(c) The President shall designate one of the members of the Council as the Chairman of the Council.
(d) The Council shall meet at the call of the Secretary.
(e) The Council shall be advisory to the Secretary in which capacity it shall—
(1) Serve as a source of knowledge and information on developments in different fields and segments of our economic and social life which affect minority business enterprise.
(2) Keep abreast of plans, programs and activities in the public and private sectors which relate to minority business enterprise, and advise the Secretary on any measures to better achieve the objectives of this order.
(3) Consider and advise the Secretary and such officials as he may designate, on problems and matters referred to the Council.
(f) For the purposes of Executive Order No. 11007 of February 26, 1962, the Council shall be deemed to have been formed by the Secretary.
(g) Members of the Council shall be entitled to receive travel and expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5701-5708) for persons in the Government service employed intermittently.
(h) The Secretary shall arrange for administrative support of the Council to the extent necessary including use of any gifts or bequests accepted by the Department of Commerce pursuant to law.
SEC. 3. Responsibilities of other Federal departments and agencies. (a) The head of each Federal department and agency, or a representative designated by him, when so requested by the Secretary, shall, to the extent permitted by law and funds available, furnish information and assistance, and participate in all ways appropriate to carry out the objectives of this order.
(b) The head of each Federal department or agency shall, when so requested by the Secretary, designate a senior official to have primary and continuing responsibility for the participation and cooperation of that department or agency in matters concerning minority business enterprise and activities as required by this order.
(c) The head of each Federal department or agency, or his designated representative, shall keep the Secretary informed of all proposed budgets, plans, and programs of his department or agency affecting minority business enterprise.
SEC. 4. Construction. Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal department or agency or head thereof to the authority of any other agency or officer, or as abrogating or restricting any such function in any manner.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
March 5, 1969