By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
There is a clear interrelationship between America's economic health and that of the rest of the world. It follows from this that the cause of stability and peace is served by the advancement of free-flowing world trade.
The United States works closely with other nations to promote the expansion of trade on an equitable basis in the world market. Our national trade policy supports the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and other international institutions that seek new ways to facilitate the fair exchange of goods between nations. By reducing barriers to trade the United States and its trading partners have contributed to the growth of the world economy.
As we work toward freer trade, we recognize that our greatest strength lies in the traditional competitive urge of American business and labor. As their international efforts increase their earnings, the nation benefits from a strengthened dollar position and an improved balance of payments.
Exports of United States merchandise rose to a record $34 billion in 1968, $3 billion more than in 1967. Imports of foreign products into the United States, attracted by vigorous domestic economic activity and rising consumer income, reached almost $33 billion, an increase of $6 billion.
Since imports advanced much faster than exports, our trade surplus dropped $3 billion to a total of less than $1 billion. One lesson in this decline is especially important: We must intensify our efforts to contain inflationary pressures at home, helping make our exports more competitive; as our exports expand, we will restore a healthy trade surplus.
Additional outlets are needed for the diversity and abundance of our industrial and agricultural production. We also must find ways to help less developed countries participate more fully in world trade.
Enlarged markets for our goods and services speed the pace of our economic progress and advance the well-being of all our people. New markets abroad create new jobs at home; new avenues of world trade run parallel to new roads to world peace.
Government in the past has helped American industry and agriculture to open up new markets abroad; today we are more willing and better prepared to help than ever before.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning May 18, 1969, as World Trade Week; and I request the appropriate Federal, State, and local officials to cooperate in the observance of that week.
I urge business, labor, agricultural, educational, professional, and civic groups, as well as the people of the United States generally, to observe World Trade Week with gatherings, discussions, exhibits, ceremonies, and other appropriate activities designed to promote continuing awareness of the importance of world trade to our economy and our relations with other nations.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-third.
RICHARD NIXON