By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
With two-thirds of our population crowded onto only two percent of the land, many of our people are denied economic opportunities, adequate living space, health, cultural fulfillment, and those spiritual values without which no nation can achieve greatness.
The time for action is at hand—for careful plans to be formulated, and for decisions to he made at local governmental levels, to foster the improved distribution of population and accompanying economic activity needed during the decade of the 1970's and beyond. The Government can provide assistance, but the effort will succeed only as all Americans take part in developing a policy of sound national growth.
In this effort, city dwellers and rural people alike have reason to work together toward common goals. The wellbeing of urban America and the welfare of rural America will increasingly intertwine as our total population expands. Better living in the one depends on better living in the other.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week of November 20 through November 26,1970, as National Farm-City Week and call upon all citizens to participate in this observance.
I request that leaders of agricultural organizations, business groups, labor unions, youth and women's clubs, civic and fraternal associations, schools and others join in noting not only the interdependent roles of producers and consumers 'of America's agricultural abundance but also their opportunities for cooperation in building for the future.
I urge the Department of Agriculture, land-grant educational institutions, and all appropriate organizations and government officials to carry out programs to mark the new significance of National Farm-City Week, including public meetings and exhibits, and presentations in the press and on radio and television.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this sixth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and seventy, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-fifth.
RICHARD NIXON