WHEREAS the policy of the Government of the United States is to insure the continuance of a strong and healthy free enterprise system; and
WHEREAS the existence of a strong and healthy free enterprise system is directly related to the well being and competitive strength of small business concerns and their opportunities for free entry into business, growth, and expansion; and
WHEREAS the departments and agencies of the United States Government exercise, through their regulatory and other programs and practices, a significant influence on the well being and competitive strength of business concerns, particularly minority-owned business concerns, and their opportunities for free entry into business, growth and expansion; and
WHEREAS members of minority groups traditionally have aspired to own their own businesses and thereby to participate in our free enterprise system; and
WHEREAS members of certain minority groups through no fault of their own have been denied the full opportunity to achieve these aspirations; and
WHEREAS the policy of the Executive Branch of the United States Government continues to be, as was described by President Dwight D. Eisenhower, "to strive to eliminate obstacles to the growth of small business"; and
WHEREAS the Small Business Act (72 Stat. 384, 15 U.S.C. 631) declares the Congressional policy that the United States Government should aid, counsel, assist and protect, insofar as is possible, the interests of small business concerns; and
WHEREAS the Small Business Administration is the agency within the Executive Branch of the United States Government especially responsible for and with an established program of advocacy in matters relating to small business; and
WHEREAS section 8(b) (12) of the Small Business Act (72 Stat. 391, 15 U.S.C. 637(b) (12)) empowers the Small Business Administration to consult and cooperate with all Government agencies for the purpose of insuring that small business concerns receive fair and reasonable treatment from such agencies, and section 10(f) of that Act (72 Stat. 393, 15 U.S.C. 639(f)) requires each department and agency of the Federal Government, when requested by the Administrator of the Small Business Administration, to consult and cooperate with the Administration in the formulation by such department or agency of policies affecting small business concerns, in order to insure that small business interests will be recognized, protected, and preserved:
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States and in furtherance of the purpose and policy of the Small Business Act, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. The Small Business Administration, as the spokesman for and advocate of the small business community, shall advise and counsel small business concerns in their dealings with the departments and agencies of the United States Government to the end that the views of small business concerns will be fully heard, their rights fully protected, and their valid interests fully advanced.
SEC. 2. Departments and agencies of the Executive Branch of the United States Government shall call upon the Small Business Administration for advice, guidance, and assistance when considering matters which reasonably can be construed as materially affecting the well being or competitive strength of small business concerns or their opportunities for free entry into business, growth, or expansion. In taking action on such matters, these departments and agencies shall act in a manner calculated to advance the valid interests of small business concerns.
SEC. 3. The Small Business Administration, whenever it determines that the valid interests of small business concerns so warrant, shall take such action as may be appropriate to insure the timely presentation to departments and agencies of the United States Government of matters materially affecting the well being or competitive strength of small business concerns or their opportunities for free entry into business, growth, or expansion. To this end, the Small Business Administration may participate in investigations, hearings, or other proceedings pending before such departments or agencies and submit evidence, briefs, and arguments in accordance with, and to the extent permitted by, the department's or agency's rules of practice and procedure.
SEC. 4. In performing the responsibilities and duties placed on it by this order, the Small Business Administration shall particularly consider the needs and interests of minority-owned small business concerns and of members of minority groups seeking entry into the business community.
SEC. 5. Nothing in this order shall be construed to authorize the Small Business Administration to act as an attorney for an individual concern in any investigation, hearing, or other proceeding pending before any department or agency of the United States Government. Nothing in this order shall be construed to subject any department or agency to the authority of any other department or agency, to affect the present authority of any department or agency to participate in the proceedings of another department or agency, or to affect the authority of the Attorney General under 28 U.S.C. 519.
SEC. 6. The term "small business concern" as used in this order shall have the same meaning as in the Small Business Act.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
March 20, 1970