WHEREAS finding ways in which to improve management and efficiency in the executive branch meets a vital and continuing need; and
WHEREAS it is essential that the resources of the executive branch which are devoted to the fulfillment of our international responsibilities and the needs of our citizens be managed and utilized in as effective a manner as possible; and
WHEREAS the best management practices and techniques developed by individual Government agencies and by business and industry should be utilized in all Government agencies whenever applicable; and
WHEREAS there is a need to review the progress of the Government's management improvement program and to furnish the President advice thereon; and
WHEREAS it is desirable to give increased attention to the improvement of the management of executive agencies and programs:
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Establishment of the Council. (a) There is hereby established the President's Advisory Council on Management improvement (hereinafter referred to as the Council).
(b) The Council shall be composed of 10 members, all of whom shall be appointed by the President from among citizens outside the Government and who shall serve at the pleasure of the President. The President shall designate one of the members of the Council to serve as Chairman.
(c) Each member of the Council shall be entitled to receive compensation for each day he is engaged on business of the Council, and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 3109 and 5703) for persons in the Government service employed intermittently.
SEC. 2. Functions of the Council. As requested by the President or the Director of the Bureau of the Budget, the Council shall, from time to time:
(a) Provide advice and assistance on Government-wide and interagency management problems.
(b) Make systematic appraisals of Government-wide operations to identify opportunities to improve efficiency and cost control.
(c) Carry forward the functions which were vested in the President's Advisory Council on Cost Reduction by Executive Order No. 11353 of May 23, 1967, as amended, but without regard to the time limitation contained therein.
(d) Provide for an interchange of ideas with responsible operating officials throughout the executive branch on opportunities for management improvement and appropriate action to achieve such improvement.
(e) Submit reports to the President containing appropriate recommendations for improving the efficiency of Government-wide operations.
SEC. 3. Assistance by Federal agencies. The Office of Executive Management, Bureau of the Budget, shall provide staff assistance to the Council and, upon request of the Chairman of the Council, other executive departments and agencies shall, consistent with law, furnish to the Council available information which the Council may require in performance of its functions.
SEC. 4. Saving provision. Nothing in this order shall derogate from the functions or status of the President's Advisory Council on Executive Organization established by the President on April 5, 1969.
SEC. 5. Prior order. Without prejudice to the provisions of section 2 (c) hereof, the following are hereby revoked:
(1) Executive Order No. 11353 of May 23, 1967, and
(2) Executive Order No. 11418 of July 27, 1968.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
February 11, 1970