By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 the joint resolution of Congress of June 22, 1942, entitled "Joint Resolution to Codify and Emphasize Existing Rules and Customs Pertaining to the Display and Use of the Flag of the United States of America," as amended by the joint resolution of December 22, 1942, 56 Stat. 1074, contains the following provisions:
"Sec. 2. (a) It is the universal custom to display the flag only from sunrise to sunset on buildings and on stationary flagstaffs in the open. However, the flag may be displayed at night upon special occasions when it is desired to produce a patriotic effect.
"Sec. 8. Any rule or custom pertaining to the display of the flag of the United States of America, set forth herein, may be altered, modified, or repealed, or additional rules with respect thereto may be prescribed, by the Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, whenever he deems it to be appropriate or desirable; and any such alteration or additional rule shall be set forth in a proclamation."; and
Whereas
 the White House is a house that belongs to all the people; and
Whereas
 the White House, as the home of the President and his family, symbolizes the love of home and family which has long characterized our people; and
Whereas
 it is customary for many of our own citizens and many persons from other countries who visit our Nation's Capital to view the White House at night; and
Whereas
 it is thus appropriate that the flag be flown over the White House by night as well as by day:
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim that the flag of the United States of America shall hereafter be displayed at the White House at all times during the day and night, except when the weather is inclement.
The rules and customs pertaining to the display of the flag as set forth in the joint resolution of June 22, 1942, as amended, are hereby modified accordingly.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and seventy, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-fifth.
RICHARD NIXON