By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Establishment of Commission. (a) There is hereby established the President's Commission on Campus Unrest (hereinafter referred to as the Commission).
(b) The Commission shall be composed of a Chairman to be appointed by the President, and of so many other members as the President may appoint.
SEC. 2. Functions of the Commission. The Commission shall study dissent, disorder, and violence on the campuses of institutions of higher learning or in connection with such institutions, and report its findings and recommendations to the President. The duties of the Commission shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1) Identifying the principal causes of campus violence and the breakdown in the process of orderly expression of dissent on the campus.
(2) Suggesting specific methods and procedures through which grievances can be resolved by means other than the exertion of force.
(3) Suggesting ways to protect academic freedom, the right to obtain an education free from improper interference, and the right of peaceful dissent and protest.
(4) Proposing practical steps which can be taken by government at all levels, by the administrations of institutions of higher learning, and by students, through student governments or otherwise, to minimize dangers attendant upon expressions of dissent.
SEC. 3. Staff of the Commission. (a) The Commission shall have an Executive Director, appointed by the President in accordance with law.
(b) Subject to law, the Commission is authorized (1) to appoint such additional personnel as it deems necessary and fix their compensation, and (2) to obtain services in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 3109.
SEC. 4. Expenses. Members of the Commission shall receive compensation of $100 per day when engaged in the performance of duties under this order and shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5703) for persons in Government service employed intermittently.
SEC. 5. Cooperation by executive departments and agencies. (a) The Commission, acting through its chairman, is authorized to request from any executive department or agency any information and assistance deemed necessary to carry out its functions under this order. Each department and agency is directed, to the extent permitted by law and within the limits of available funds, to furnish information and assistance to the Commission.
(b) The General Services Administration shall provide administrative services and support for the Commission.
SEC. 6. Report and termination. The Commission shall present its final report and recommendations to the President not later than October 1, 1970, and shall terminate thirty days after the presentation of such report.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
June 13, 1970