By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 204 of the Agricultural Act of 1956, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1854), and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. The Secretary of State, with the concurrence of the Secretary of Agriculture and the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations, is authorized to negotiate bilateral agreements with representatives of governments of foreign countries limiting the export from the respective countries and the importation into the United States of fresh, chilled, or frozen cattle meat (item 106.10 of the Tariff Schedules of the United States) and fresh, chilled, or frozen meat of goats and sheep, except lambs (item 106.20 of the Tariff Schedules of the United States) which are the products of such countries.
SEC. 2. The Secretary of Agriculture, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State and the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations, is authorized to issue regulations governing the entry or withdrawal from warehouse for consumption in the United States of any such meats to carry out any such agreement.
SEC. 3. The Commissioner of Customs shall take such actions and supply such information to the Secretary of Agriculture with respect to entry or withdrawal from warehouse for consumption in the United States of such meats as the Secretary of Agriculture, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State and the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations, may request to carry out any such agreements or regulations.
SEC. 4. Heads of departments and heads of agencies are hereby authorized to redelegate within their respective departments or agencies the functions herein assigned to them, except that the function of negotiating agreements delegated to the Secretary of State by section 1 and the function of issuing regulations delegated to the Secretary of Agriculture by section 2 of this order may be redelegated only to officials required to be appointed by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, as provided by 3 U.S.C. 301.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
June 30, 1970