By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, and in consonance with the intention expressed in my message to the Congress transmitting Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1970, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Amended and superseded orders. Executive Orders Nos. 10705 of April 17, 1957, 11051 of September 27, 1962, 11191 of January 4, 1965, and 11490 of October 28, 1969, and the President's Memorandum of August 21, 1963, headed "Establishment of the National Communications System" (28 F.R. 9413) are amended as provided herein. Executive Orders Nos. 10695—A of January 16, 1957, 10995 of February 16, 1962, and 11084 of February 15, 1963, to the extent not heretofore made inapplicable, are hereby revoked.
SEC. 2. General functions. Subject to the authority and control of the President, the Director of the Office of Telecommunications Policy (hereinafter referred to as the Director) shall:
(a) Serve as the President's principal adviser on telecommunications.
(b) Develop and set forth plans, policies, and programs with respect to telecommunications that will promote the public interest, support national security, sustain and contribute to the full development of the economy and world trade, strengthen the position and serve the best interests of the United States in negotiations with foreign nations, and promote effective and innovative use of telecommunications technology, resources, and services. Agencies shall consult with the Director to insure that their conduct of telecommunications activities is consistent with the Director's policies and standards.
(c) Assure that the executive branch views are effectively presented to the Congress and the Federal Communications Commission on telecommunications policy matters.
(d) Coordinate those interdepartmental and national activities which are conducted in preparation for U.S. participation in international telecommunications conferences and negotiations, and provide to the Secretary of State advice and assistance with respect to telecommunications in support of the Secretary's responsibilities for the conduct of foreign affairs.
(e) Coordinate the telecommunications activities of the executive branch and formulate policies and standards therefor, including but not limited to considerations of interoperability, privacy, security, spectrum use and emergency readiness.
(f) Evaluate by appropriate means, including suitable tests, the capability of existing and planned telecommunications systems to meet national security and emergency preparedness requirements, and report the results and any recommended remedial actions to the President and the National Security Council.
(g) Review telecommunications research and development, system improvement and expansion programs, and programs for the testing, operation, and use of telecommunications systems by Federal agencies. Identify competing, overlapping, duplicative or inefficient programs, and make recommendations to appropriate agency officials and to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget concerning the scope and funding of telecommunications programs.
(h) Coordinate the development of policy, plans, programs, and standards for the mobilization and use of the Nation's telecommunications resources in any emergency, and be prepared to administer such resources in any emergency under the overall policy direction and planning assumptions of the Director of the Office of Emergency Preparedness.
(i) Develop, in cooperation with the Federal Communications Commission, a comprehensive long-range plan for improved management of all electromagnetic spectrum resources.
(j) Conduct and coordinate economic, technical, and systems analyses of telecommunications policies, activities, and opportunities in support of assigned responsibilities.
(k) Conduct studies and analyses to evaluate the impact of the convergence of computer and communications technologies, and recommend needed actions to the President and to the departments and agencies.
(1) Coordinate Federal assistance to State and local governments in the telecommunications area.
(m) Contract for studies and reports related to any aspect of his responsibilities.
SEC. 3. Frequency assignments. The functions transferred to the Director by section 1 of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1970 include the functions of amending, modifying, and revoking frequency assignments for radio stations belonging to and operated by the United States, or to classes thereof, which have heretofore been made or which may be made hereafter.
SEC. 4. War powers. Executive Order No. 10705 of April 17, 1957, headed "Delegating Certain Authority of the President Relating to Radio Stations and Communications", as amended, is further amended by:
(a) Substituting for subsection (a) of section 1 the following: "(a) Subject to the provisions of this order, the authority vested in the President by subsections 606 (a), (c), and (d) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (47 U.S.C. 606 (a), (c), and (d)), is delegated to the Director of the Office of Telecommunications Policy (hereinafter referred to as the Director). That authority shall be exercised under the overall policy direction of the Director of the Office of Emergency Preparedness."
(b) Substituting for the text "subsections 305(a) and 606(a)" in subsection (b) of section 1 the following: "subsection 606(a)".
SEC. 5. Foreign government radio stations. The authority to authorize a foreign government to construct and operate a radio station at the seat of government vested in the President by subsection 305 (d) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (47 U.S.C. 305 (d)), is hereby delegated to the Director. Authorization for the construction and operation of a radio station pursuant to this subsection and the assignment of a frequency for its use shall be made only upon recommendation of the Secretary of State and after consultation with the Attorney General and the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission.
SEC. 6. Office of Emergency Preparedness. (a) Executive Order No. 11051 of September 27, 1962, headed "Prescribing Responsibilities of the Office of Emergency Planning in the Executive Office of the President", as amended, is further amended by:
(1) Deleting subsection 301 (4) and renumbering sub-section 301 (5) as subsection 301 (4).
(2) Substituting for section 306 the following:
"Sec. 306. Emergency telecommunication. The Director shall be responsible for providing overall policy guidance to the Director of the Office of Telecommunications Policy in planning for the mobilization of the Nation's telecommunications resources in time of national emergency."
(3) Deleting section 406.
SEC. 7. Emergency preparedness. Executive Order No. 11490 of October 28, 1969, headed "Assigning emergency preparedness functions to Federal departments and agencies," as amended, is hereby further amended (1) by substituting "Policy (35 F.R. 6421)" for "Management (OEP) " in section 401 (27), and (2) by substituting the number of this order for "10995" in section 1802 and in section 2002(3).
SEC. 8. National Communications System. The President's Memorandum of August 21, 1963, headed "Establishment of the National Communications System" (28 F.R. 9413), is amended by:
(a) Substituting the following for the first paragraph after the heading "Executive Office Responsibilities":
"The Director of the Office of Telecommunications Policy shall be responsible for policy direction of the development and operation of the National Communications System and shall:"
(b) Substituting the term "Director of the Office of Telecommunications Policy" for the term "Special Assistant to the President for Telecommunications" wherever it appears in said memorandum.
SEC. 9. Communications Satellite Act of 1962. Executive Order No. 11191 of January 4, 1965, headed "Providing for the Carrying Out of Certain Provisions of the Communications Satellite Act of 1962", is amended by:
(a) Substituting the following for subsection (c) of section 1:
"(c) The term 'the Director' means the Director of the Office of Telecommunications Policy.", and
(b) Substituting the following for the catchline of section 2: "Director of the Office of Telecommunications Policy."
SEC. 10. Advisory committees. As may be permitted by law, the Director shall establish such interagency advisory committees and working groups composed of representatives of interested agencies and consult with such departments and agencies as may be necessary for the most effective performance of his functions. To the extent he deems it necessary to continue the Interdepartment Radio Advisory Committee, that Committee shall serve in an advisory capacity to the Director. As may be permitted by law, the Director also shall establish one or more telecommunications advisory committees composed of experts in the telecommunications area outside the Government.
SEC. 11. Rules and regulations. The Director shall issue such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out the duties and responsibilities delegated to or vested in him by this order.
SEC. 12. Agency assistance. All executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government are authorized and directed to cooperate with the Director and to furnish him such information, support and assistance, not inconsistent with law, as he may require in the performance of his duties.
SEC. 13. Functions of the Secretary of Commerce. The Secretary of Commerce shall support the Director in the performance of his functions, shall be a primary source of technical research and analysis and, operating under the policy guidance and direction of the Director, shall:
(a) Perform analysis, engineering and administrative functions, including the maintenance of necessary files and data bases, responsive to the needs of the Director in the performance of his responsibilities for the management of the radio spectrum.
(b) Conduct technical and economic research upon request to provide information and alternatives required by the Director.
(c) Conduct research and analysis on radio propagation, radio systems characteristics, and operating techniques affecting the utilization of the radio spectrum in coordination with specialized, related research and analysis performed by other Federal agencies in their areas of responsibility.
(d) Conduct research and analysis in the general field of telecommunication sciences in support of other Government agencies as required and in response to specific requests from the Director.
(e) Conduct such other activities as may be required by the Director to support him in the performance of his functions.
SEC. 14. Retention of existing authority. (a) Nothing contained in this order shall be deemed to impair any existing authority or jurisdiction of the Federal Communications Commission. In carrying out his functions under this order, the Director shall coordinate his activities as appropriate with the Federal Communications Commission and make appropriate recommendations to it as the regulator of the private sector.
(b) Except as specifically provided herein, nothing in this order shall be deemed to derogate from any existing assignment of functions to any other department or agency or officer thereof made by statute, Executive order, or other Presidential directives.
RICHARD NIXON.
The White House
September 4, 1970