Large numbers of veterans are now leaving the Nation's armed forces, and many of them have been encountering severe difficulties in making the transition to civilian life—in particular, many have found it difficult to locate and secure a job.
The Nation owes these veterans not only its deepest thanks for their sacrifice and their service, but also its assistance in their efforts to resume normal civilian activities.
In order to provide such assistance, the Federal Government has established a policy of helping veterans obtain employment, including the provision of special programs of job counseling and placement. It also is the policy of the Federal Government to require that veterans be given a preference in job referrals through the employment service system.
It would facilitate the employment of returning veterans—and thereby further the Federal policy of aiding their transition to civilian life—to require that Federal agencies and Federal contractors and their subcontractors list certain employment openings with the employment service system.
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. The Secretary of Labor shall issue rules and regulations requiring each department and agency of the Executive Branch of the Federal Government to list suitable employment openings with the appropriate office of the State Employment Service or the United States Employment Service. This section shall not be construed as requiring the employment of individuals referred by such office or as superseding any requirements of the Civil Service laws.
SEC. 2 (a). Those rules and regulations shall also require Government contracts, above a specified dollar amount and providing specified employment potential, to contain assurances that the contractor, and any subcontractor holding a contract directly under that contractor, shall, to the maximum extent feasible, list all of its suitable employment openings with the appropriate office of the State employment service system: Provided, That this section shall not be deemed to apply to openings which the employer proposes to fill from within such employer's agency or organization; and Provided further, That listing of employment openings with the employment service system pursuant to this Order shall involve only the normal obligations which attach to such listings.
(b) The rules and regulations of the Secretary with respect to this section shall not be retroactive in effect.
SEC. 3. The Secretary of Labor shall gather information on the effectiveness of the program established under this Order and the extent to which the employment service system is fulfilling the employment needs of veterans. The Secretary of Labor shall, from time to time, report to the President concerning his evaluation of the effectiveness of this Order along with his recommendations for further action which the Secretary believes to be appropriate.
SEC. 4. Except as otherwise provided by law, all executive departments and agencies are directed to cooperate with the Secretary of Labor, to furnish the Secretary of Labor with such information and assistance as he may require in the performance of his functions under this Order, and to comply with rules, regulations, and orders of the Secretary.
SEC. 5. Rules, regulations, and orders to implement section 1 shall be developed in consultation with the Civil Service Commission. Appropriate departments and agencies shall, in consultation with the Secretary of Labor, issue appropriate amendments or additions to procurement rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
June 16, 1971