As State and local governments are playing an ever increasing role in meeting the Nation's most pressing domestic problems, there now exists a clear national interest in achieving a high caliber of public service at all levels of government. It is especially important that the country direct greater attention to policies and approaches for strengthening the quality of State and local public administration consistent with merit principles.
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 102 of the Intergovernmental Personnel Act of 1970 (84 Stat. 1910), and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Establishment of the Council. (a) There is hereby established the Advisory Council on Intergovernmental Personnel Policy (hereinafter referred to as the Council).
(b) The Council shall be composed of not more than 15 members, all appointed by the President, and shall consist primarily of officials of the Federal Government and State and local governments, but shall also include members selected from educational and training institutions or organizations, public employee or labor organizations, and the general public. At least half of the governmental members shall be State and local officials. The President shall designate a Chairman and a Vice Chairman from among the members of the Council.
(c) Members of the Council who are not full-time employees of the United States, while serving on the business of the Council, including travel time, may be compensated at rates not exceeding the rate now or hereafter prescribed by section 5332 of Title 5 of the United States Code for GS-18 of the General Schedule; and may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by section 5703 of Title 5 of the United States Code for persons in the Government service employed intermittently.
SEC. 2. Functions of the Council. The Council shall study and make recommendations on intergovernmental personnel policies and programs for the purpose of 
(1) improving the quality of public administration at State and local levels of government, particularly in connection with programs that are financed in whole or in part from Federal funds;
(2) strengthening the capacity of State and local governments to deal with complex problems confronting them;
(3) aiding State and local governments in training their professional, administrative, and technical employees and officials;
(4) aiding State and local governments in developing systems of personnel administration that are responsive to the goals and needs of their programs and effective in attracting and retaining capable employees; and
(5) facilitating temporary assignments of personnel between the Federal Government and State and local governments and institutions of higher education.
SEC. 3. Assistance by Federal Agencies. The Civil Service Commission shall provide staff assistance to the Council, and upon request of the Chairman of the Council, other executive departments and agencies shall, consistent with law, furnish to the Council available information which may be required in the performance of its functions.
SEC. 4. Reports. (a) The Council shall from time to time report its findings and recommendations to the President and to the Congress.
(b) Not later than 18 months from this date, the Council shall submit an initial report on its activities which shall include its views and recommendations on 
(1) the feasibility and desirability of extending merit policies and standards to additional Federal-State grant-in-aid programs;
(2) the feasibility and desirability of extending merit policies and standards to grant-in-aid programs of a Federal-local character;
(3) appropriate standards for merit personnel administration, where applicable, including those established by regulations with respect to existing Federal grant-in-aid programs; and
(4) the feasibility and desirability of financial and other incentives to encourage State and local governments in the development of comprehensive systems of personnel administration based on merit principles.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
July 19, 1971