By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution, and as President of the United States and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States, Executive Order No. 10713 of June 5, 1957, as amended by Executive Order No. 11010 of March 19, 1962, Executive Order No. 11263 of December 20, 1965, and Executive Order No. 11395 of January 31, 1968, is hereby further amended as follows:
1. Section 6(a) of that Order is revised to read as fol. lows:
"(a) The legislative power of the Government of the Ryukyu Islands, except as otherwise provided in this order, shall be vested in a legislative body consisting of a single house. Members of the legislative body shall be directly elected by the people of the islands in 1962, and triennially thereafter, for terms of three years, provided that the terms of office for incumbent members of the legislative body, as of the effective date of this amendment, shall extend until the date of entry into force of the Agreement between Japan and the United States of America Concerning the Ryukyu Islands and the Daito Islands."
2. Section 8 (b) (1) of that Order is revised to read as follows:
"(b) (1) The Chief Executive shall be elected by the people of the Ryukyu Islands. The person having the greatest number of votes shall be the Chief Executive, provided that he shall have received at least one-fourth of the total number of votes cast. The Chief Executive shall be elected on the same day as are the members of the legislative body and shall serve a term concurrent with the term of the members of the legislative body and thereafter until his successor takes office; provided that the term of office of the incumbent Chief Executive, as of the effective date of this amendment, shall extend until the entry into force of the Agreement between Japan and the United States of America Concerning the Ryukyu Islands and the Daito Islands. The first such election of the Chief Executive shall be on the same day as the legislative elections in November 1968. The legislative body shall by law establish procedures for the election of the Chief Executive, determine the qualifications for the office of Chief Executive and provide for special elections when necessary to fill a vacancy."
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
September 10, 1971