By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
The skills, the wisdom and the strength of older Americans constitute a great resource for our country. Unfortunately, it is a resource which has not been adequately used. Too many of our older citizens are denied opportunities for employment simply because of their age. Yet each year thousands of older workers demonstrate in convincing fashion that age is not a bar to efficient and productive labor.
Often, in fact, just the opposite is the case. For the older worker brings to his job a range and depth of experience which makes his efforts especially valuable.
The more I learn about older men and women, the more convinced I become of this central fact: what those who have reached retirement age desire most of all in life is the chance to continue their service to society. They want to be useful members of the community—independent and self-reliant citizens who are regarded as full participants in our national life.
I believe very strongly that these men and women, who have already given so much to our country, deserve every chance to fulfill this desire. They will benefit enormously from such opportunities, and our society will benefit even more.
The Congress, by joint resolution approved December 28, 1970, has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation designating the first full calendar week in May of 1971, as "National Employ the Older Worker Week."
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon
, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the period May 2 through May 8, 1971, as National Employ the Older Worker Week.
I urge every employer and employee organization, other organizations officially concerned with employment, and all the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies, activities, and programs designed to increase employment opportunities for older workers and to bring about the elimination of discrimination in employment because of age.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-one and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-fifth.
RICHARD NIXON