The menace of drug abuse threatens to sap our Nation's strength and destroy our Nation's character. It must be combatted in a variety of ways—through international measures, through domestic law enforcement, through programs dealing with prevention, education, treatment and rehabilitation. As one critical part of this balanced and comprehensive program, we must now give special emphasis to improving law enforcement activities at all levels of government.
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, including section 5317 of Title 5 of the United States Code, as amended, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. (a) The Attorney General of the United States shall provide for the establishment within the Department of Justice of an "Office for Drug Abuse Law Enforcement."
(b) This Office shall be headed by a Director who shall have the title of Special Assistant Attorney General.
(c) The Director shall also serve as a Special Consultant to the President for Drug Abuse Law Enforcement. He shall advise the President with respect to all matters relating to the more effective enforcement by all Federal agencies of laws relating to illegal drug traffic and on methods by which the Federal Government can assist State and local governments in strengthening the enforcement of their laws relating to illegal drug traffic. He shall, as appropriate, recommend to the President plans, programs, legislation, techniques, and other measures designed to maximize at every level of government the Nation's campaign to stamp out illegal drug traffic through effective law enforcement.
(d) The Director shall be responsible for the development and implementation of a concentrated program throughout the Federal Government for the enforcement of Federal laws relating to the prevention of drug abuse and for cooperation with State and local governments in the enforcement of their drug abuse laws. The Attorney General is called upon to delegate to the Director those duties and authorities vested in him as are necessary to carry out those functions.
SEC. 2. The Director shall consult with the Director of the Special Action Office for Drug Abuse Prevention and those officials shall ensure that all steps permitted by law are being taken by Federal, State, and local governments and, to the extent feasible, by private persons and organizations, to prevent drug abuse in this Nation and elsewhere.
SEC. 3. Section 1 of Executive Order No. 11248 of October 10, 1965, as amended, is further amended by deleting "(12) Chairman, Pay Board," and by inserting in lieu thereof "(12) Director, Office for Drug Abuse Law Enforcement."
SEC. 4. Each department and agency of the Federal Government shall, upon request and to the extent permitted by law, assist the Director of the Office for Drug Abuse Law Enforcement in the performance of functions assigned to him by or pursuant to this order, and the Director may, in carrying out those functions, utilize the services of any other agencies, Federal and State, as may be available and appropriate.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
January 28, 1972