I have approved the Federal Advisory Committee Act which provides standards for the establishment, operation, termination, and control of advisory committees, assigns responsibility for the performance of those functions, and requires the submission of an annual report to the Congress concerning the administration of the act. The provisions of the act, in effect, supersede and replace the committee management standards and procedures set forth in Executive Order No. 11671 which I issued on June 5, 1972.
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Federal Advisory Committee Act (hereinafter referred to as the act), section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. The heads of all executive departments and agencies shall take appropriate action to assure their ability to comply with the provisions of the act.
SEC. 2. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall:
(1) perform, or designate, from time to time, other officers of the Federal Government to perform, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the functions vested in the President by the act, except the function of making the annual reports to the Congress required by section 6(c) of the act;
(2) prepare for the consideration of the President the annual reports to the Congress required by section 6 (c) of the act; and
(3) prescribe administrative guidelines and management controls for advisory committees composed wholly of full-time officers or employees of the Federal Government (inter-agency committees not subject to the provisions of the act), as well as for advisory committees covered by the act.
SEC. 3. Section 8(4) of Executive Order No. 11671 of June 5, 1972, is hereby revoked and the remainder of that order shall be deemed to be superseded effective as of the expiration of ninety days following the date of my approval of the act.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
October 7, 1972.