By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
The spirit of America has long been recognized in the speed of her ships and the skill of her sailors. Long ago, the French historian de Tocqueville told the story of meeting an American sailor on his 1831 visit to this country and asking him to explain why American ships seemed built to last but a short time. The sailor replied with no hesitation that the finest of vessels would become useless if it lasted beyond a few years because the art of navigation was making such rapid progress.
In the sailor's certainty that with tomorrow would arrive something new and better, de Tocqueville recognized the attitude upon which "a great people direct all their concerns." Over the years other nations have built upon the success of our example—and they have built merchant fleets able to compete successfully with our own.
In America, the Merchant Marine Act of 1970 is once again awakening that venturesome spirit of maritime enterprise that has contributed so significantly to the strength and development of our Nation. Today we have a national commitment and program to revitalize our merchant marine and improve the competitive position of our shipbuilding industry.
This new program will generate the construction of many new ships, advanced in design and highly productive. It should help to ensure that the American merchant marine is once again one of the most modern and efficient in the world by the end of this decade.
It is important that all Americans realize the importance of our merchant marine to the Nation's economy and security. To promote such public awareness, each year since 1933, when the Congress designated the anniversary of the first transatlantic voyage by a steamship, the SS Savannah, on May 22, 1819, as National Maritime Day, successive Presidents have issued proclamations calling for public observance of that day.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon
, President of the United States of America, do hereby urge the people of the United States to honor our American merchant marine on May 22, 1972, by displaying the flag of the United States at their homes and other suitable places, and I request that all ships sailing under the American flag dress ship on that day.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-sixth.
RICHARD NIXON