By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
Theodore Roosevelt characterized an important quality of life in America when he urged on his countrymen ". . . not the doctrine of ignoble ease, but the doctrine of the strenuous life."
Americans have always prized physical vigor and vitality. Today all of us take pride in our Olympic teams, our great professional stars, and the thousands of fine young athletes in our schools and colleges.
Our high regard for physical fitness and athletic skill is well-founded. Just as these qualities were keys to survival and progress in centuries past, today they are important ingredients of a healthy life. Yet vigor and vitality are no longer natural by-products of our everyday lives. They must be developed through rigorous programs of physical exercise and training.
On October 30, 1892, the first American Slovak Sokol Society was established to help meet this need. In the 80 years since then, the Sokol has grown to include more than 23,000 members, and its gymnasiums have become famous worldwide as training grounds for gymnastics, physical fitness and good sportsmanship.
The Sokols, which trace their beginnings to Czechoslovakia, exemplify much that we identify with the best of America. For this reason, and because they have contributed significantly to the current revival of interest in gymnastics and physical fitness, it is appropriate that we join in recognizing them and the role they play in our society.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon
, President of the United States of America, in consonance with House Joint Resolution 1263, do hereby proclaim October 30, 1972, as National Sokol Day. I call upon the people of the United States and interested groups and organizations to observe that day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-seventh.
RICHARD NIXON