By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
America's recent growth patterns have paralleled to a large degree the growth of our great national highway system. This is not a coincidence.
We have learned over the years that where a highway goes, people go.
And where people go, there is new economic activity. New jobs are created, new homes are built, new communities are served and new recreational opportunities are opened.
Highways have been and will continue to be the vital lifelines for thousands of communities across this Nation. Highways link them not only with each other, but with other means of transportation by air, rail or water.
As our Nation continues to grow and prosper, Americans will be traveling on our highways in increasing numbers. Although efforts at the Federal, State and local levels over the past three years succeeded in stabilizing the number of motor vehicle fatalities, we are faced this year with an upward trend in the highway death toll rate.
If the current trend continues, traffic accidents this year will have killed more people than ever before. And the bulk of those killed, maimed or disfigured will be young people with whom the future of our Nation rests.
Given these facts and our studies which show that seven out of every ten crashes are driver-caused, I strongly urge every American to drive responsively and responsibly. I call upon all Americans to assume personal responsibility for reducing injury and death on our highways by using safety belts in their vehicles, by observing legal speed limits and by driving courteously, soberly and defensively at all times.
Only by balancing our expanded use of highways with an increased awareness of traffic safety can we hope to achieve real progress in cutting the accident and death toll on our Nation's roads and streets.
Responsible driving on our great highway system will bring us far towards our goal of a comprehensive, balanced transportation system—a system in which highways will continue to meet our principal needs for mobility, flexibility and convenience in moving people and goods.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon
, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning September 24, 1972, as National Highway Week. I urge Federal, State, and local government officials, as well as highway industry and other organizations, to hold appropriate ceremonies during that week in recognition of what highway transportation means to our country.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-seventh.
RICHARD NIXON