By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
More than 27 million Americans—one-eighth of our entire population—are affected by diseases of the heart and blood vessels. The cost in human terms—the most important cost—cannot be counted. We do know, however, that the economic impact of cardiovascular diseases totals some $30.5 billion each year, including the cost of medical care and lost income. Such diseases also result in a loss of about 38 million man-days of production annually.
Despite the remarkable advances that have been made in recent years, cardiovascular diseases remain our Nation's most pressing health problem. The continued cooperation of the public and private sectors is needed if we are to discover the underlying causes of coronary artery diseases, develop more effective methods of detecting and controlling high blood pressure, and find ways of preventing inborn heart defects.
In addition to sustaining research in these fields, professional and public education programs and community services must be intensified in order to bring the benefits of such research promptly to the people. America has the second highest heart disease rate in the world. As I said in my recent message on the state of the Union: the incidence of heart disease can be reduced in this country and we must do all that is possible to achieve such a reduction.
To encourage a continuing effective attack on cardiovascular diseases, the Congress, by a joint resolution approved December 30, 1963 (77 Stat. 843), requested the President to issue annually a proclamation designating February as American Heart Month.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon
, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of February 1972 as American Heart Month. I invite the Governors of the States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and officials of other areas subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to issue similar proclamations.
I urge the people of the United States to consider fully the nationwide problem of heart disease and to contribute to efforts aimed at countering it. Widespread support for programs to prevent premature deaths from heart disease and stroke is essential to combat this number-one threat to the Nation's health.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand this second day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-sixth.
RICHARD NIXON