By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
To the People of the United States:
 
It is my sad duty to announce officially the death of Harry S Truman, thirty-third President of the United States, on December 26, 1972. 
Throughout his long career in public service, Harry S Truman was known as a man of forthrightness and integrity. He served with distinction in the United States Senate; and when the death of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt thrust him suddenly into the Presidency in April of 1945 at one of the most critical moments of our history, he met that moment with courage and vision. His farsighted leadership in the postwar era has helped ever since to preserve peace and freedom in the world. 
Confronted during his Presidency with a momentous series of challenges, his strength and spirit proved equal to them all. His fortitude never wavered, and his faith in America never flagged. 
President Truman had a deep respect for the office he held and for the people he served. He gave himself unstintingly to the duties of the Presidency while he held it, and in the years afterward he honorably supported and wisely counseled each of his successors. 
The Nation to which he gave so much will honor his memory in admiration and respect, and the other countries for which he helped keep freedom alive will remember his name with gratitude. 
Now, Therefore, I, Richard M. Nixon,
 President of the United States of America in tribute to the memory of President Truman, and as an expression of public sorrow, do hereby direct that the flag of the United States be displayed at half-staff at the White House and on all buildings, grounds, and Naval vessels of the United States for a period of thirty days from the day of his death. I also direct that for the same length of time the representatives of the United States in foreign countries shall make similar arrangements for the display of the flag at half-staff over their Embassies, Legations, and other facilities abroad, including all military facilities and stations. 
I hereby order that suitable honors be rendered by units of the Armed Forces under orders of the Secretary of Defense on the day of the funeral. 
I do further appoint December 28, 1972 to be a National Day of Mourning throughout the United States. I recommend that the people assemble on that day in their respective places of worship, there to pay homage to the memory of President Truman and to seek God's continued blessing on our land and on this His servant. I invite the people of the world who share our grief to join us in this solemn observance. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 26th day of December, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-seventh. 
RICHARD NIXON