By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, Executive Order No. 11183 of October 3, 1964, as amended by Executive Order No. 11410 of May 6, 1968, is hereby further amended as follows:
1. Section 2(a) is amended to read:
"Sec. 2. Functions of the Commission. (a) The Commission shall prescribe such standards and procedures as may be necessary to enable it to recommend annually a group of outstanding young persons from among whom the President may select White House Fellows. Following publication of these standards and procedures, the Commission may accept (1) applications from individuals, including regular members of the Armed Forces of the United States, and (2) nominations from sponsoring individuals or organizations for consideration in its recommendations."
2. Section 2 (b) is amended by striking the word "and" at the end of paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end of paragraph (4) and inserting "; and" in lieu thereof, and by adding at the end of that section a new paragraph (5) as follows:
"(5) Are not employees as defined in section 2105 of title 5 of the United States Code on the closing date for receipt of applications."
3. Section 3 is amended to read:
"Sec. 3. White House Fellows. White House Fellows will be appointed to serve for 12 months on the White House staff, in the Executive Office of the President, in the Office of the Vice President, or in the offices of members of the Cabinet, as they may be assigned, beginning on September 1 of the year in which they are selected."
4. Section 4 is amended to read:
"Sec. 4. Executive Agencies. (a) Each executive agency as defined in section 105 of title 5 of the United States Code shall extend fullest cooperation to the White House Fellows Program and attempt to maximize the Program's benefits to the individual Fellow, the Department or Agency, and the Federal Government.
"(b) The United States Civil Service Commission shall provide the Commission with administrative services, staff support, and travel expenses as authorized by law."
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
February 16, 1972