By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
As American troops return home from another distant conflict, and when, for the first time in this century, the hope is strong for a full generation of peace, it is particularly fitting that we should pay tribute to the veterans who have served our Nation's flag with honor.
No group has sacrificed more for the cause of peace and freedom than the men and women who have proudly worn the American uniform. In serving God and country, they have sought not glory for themselves, but peace and freedom for us all. As a Nation, we owe them an enduring debt.
Each year we choose a special day to salute them—to pay homage to the millions of quiet, undemanding heroes who have served so that other generations might be spared war's anguish and destruction.
Today, when their efforts are beginning to bear fruit, America should honor them with a very special salute. For they have expressed in their service much of what is finest in our Nation—courage, selflessness, discipline and devotion. These are qualities we will need as much to build a future at peace as we have needed in the past in time of war.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon
, President of the United States of America, do hereby call upon all Americans to join in commemorating Monday, October 23, 1972, as Veterans Day with suitable observances. I urge all Americans especially to honor the memory of those who have fallen in battle, those of our veterans who lie in hospital beds today, and the brave men held prisoner or missing in action in Southeast Asia, and all their families and dependents. And let us also pledge to accord, not just on one day, but on each day, to the living veterans, especially the disabled, the traditional respect for those who risked their lives that freedom might be preserved. Let all Americans give these veterans a helping hand in their readjustment to civilian life.
Let us, as a people, give them our gratitude and our prayers.
I direct the appropriate officials of Government to arrange for the display of the flag of the United States on that day. And I request the officials of Federal, State and local governments, schools, civic and patriotic organizations to give their enthusiastic support and leadership to appropriate public ceremonies throughout the Nation.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-seventh.
RICHARD NIXON