By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Energy Policy Office
SECTION 1. There is hereby established in the Executive Office of the President an Energy Policy Office. The office shall be under the immediate supervision and direction of a Director of the Energy Policy Office who shall be designated or appointed by the President.
Functions of the Director
SEC. 2 (a). The Director shall be the Administration's chief policy officer with respect to energy matters, and shall be the President's principal adviser concerning those matters.
(b) The Director shall also be responsible for—
(1) identifying major problems, present and prospective, in the energy areas;
(2) making policy recommendations to the President with respect to energy matters;
(3) working with executive branch agencies and outside groups in reviewing policy alternatives with respect to energy matters;
(4) reviewing, commenting on, and making separate recommendations on all other energy-related matters which require Presidential attention;
(5) insuring that executive branch agencies develop short- and long-range plans for dealing with energy matters;
(6) monitoring the implementation of approved energy policies with the assistance of the Office of Management and Budget;
(7) providing guidance and direction to the Oil Policy Committee and its Chairman in the performance of its functions;
(8) providing advice to the Cost of Living Council concerning energy matters;
(9) assuring the development of comprehensive plans and programs to assure the availability of adequate and dependable supplies of energy; and
(10) initiating studies to be carried out by the appropriate Government agencies.
Support
SEC. 3 (a). Necessary expenses of the Energy Policy Office may be paid from the Emergency Fund of the President or from such other funds as may be available.
(b) The Administrator of General Services shall provide, on a reimbursable basis, such administrative support as may be needed by the Energy Policy Office.
(c) All departments and agencies of the executive branch shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide assistance and information to the Director of the Energy Policy Office.
SEC. 4. The Director of the Energy Policy Office shall make a report to the President, for transmission to the Congress, no later than March 15, 1974, concerning actions that have been taken and actions that should be taken to carry out the purposes of this order.
Supersedure
SEC. 5. Executive Order No. 11712 of April 18, 1973, is hereby superseded and the Special Committee on Energy and the National Energy Office are hereby abolished.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
June 29, 1973.