This Administration is determined to continue to develop a more comprehensive, integrated national energy policy to meet the emerging energy challenge. Many steps have been taken toward that end, including measures to increase domestic production of all forms of energy without violating our natural environment, to conserve the energy we produce, to better utilize our current resources, and to use our vast scientific and technological capacities to develop new sources and new forms of energy. I have now determined that in order to protect and promote the interests of the people of the United States as energy users, and to coordinate the policies of the executive branch in this area, it is necessary to establish a Special Committee on Energy and a National Energy Office.
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States by the Constitution and statutes of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON ENERGY
SECTION 1. Three Assistants to the President, John D. Ehrlichman, Henry A. Kissinger, and George P. Shultz, shall constitute a Special Committee on Energy. The Director of the National Energy Office shall perform his functions under this order in accordance with policies and guidance provided him by the Special Committee.
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE
SEC. 2. There is hereby established in the Executive Office of the President a National Energy Office. The Office shall be under the immediate supervision and direction of a Director who shall be designated by the President. The Director shall report to the President through the Special Committee on Energy.
FUNCTIONS OF THE DIRECTOR
SEC. 3. (a). The Director shall advise the President, through the Special Committee on Energy, with respect to all Federal energy programs, activities, and related matters.
(b) The Director shall recommend policies and guidelines pertaining to energy matters for all energy related programs within the Executive Branch. To the maximum extent permitted by law, Federal officers and Federal departments and agencies shall cooperate with the Director in carrying out his functions under this Order.
(c) In addition, the Director shall 
(1) assure the development of comprehensive plans and programs to insure the availability of adequate and dependable supplies of energy;
(2) assure that Federal energy policy is properly coordinated;
(3) evaluate all such programs;
(4) advise the heads of departments and agencies of his findings and recommendations, when appropriate;
(5) make recommendations to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget concerning proposed funding of energy programs and activities;
(6) constitute a clearinghouse for the prompt consideration of energy problems brought to his attention by Federal departments and agencies and by other public and private entities, organizations, agencies, or individuals; and
(7) report, through the Special Committee on Energy, from time to time, to the President concerning the foregoing.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
April 18, 1973.