By the virtue of the authority vested in me by Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1973, the Disaster Relief Act of 1970, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4401, et seq.), and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code and as President of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. (a) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development is designated and empowered to exercise without the approval, ratification, or other action of the' President, all of the authority vested in the President by the Disaster Relief Act of 1970, as amended, hereinafter referred to as the "Act", except (1) the authorities vested in the President by section 102(1) of the Act to declare a major disaster, by section 251 of the Act to provide for the restoration of Federal facilities, and by section 253 of the Act to prescribe time limits for granting priorities for certain public facilities and certain public housing assistance which are hereby reserved to the President; (2) the authority vested in the President by section 210 of the Act concerning the utilization and availability of the civil defense communications system for the purpose of disaster warnings which the Secretary of Defense is empowered to exercise by this order; and (3) the authority vested in the President by section 238 of the Act concerning food coupons and surplus commodities, which the Secretary of Agriculture is empowered to exercise by this order.
(b) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development is hereby empowered to exercise without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, all of the authority conferred upon the President by section 4 of the act entitled "An Act to authorize for a limited period additional loan assistance under the Small Business Act for disaster victims, to provide for a study and report to the Congress by the President setting forth recommendations for a comprehensive revision of disaster relief legislation, and for other purposes."
(c) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may delegate or assign to the head of any agency of the executive branch of the Government, subject to the consent of the agency head concerned in each case, any authority or function delegated or assigned to the Secretary by the provisions of this section. Any such head of the agency may redelegate any authority or function so delegated or assigned to him by the Secretary to any officer or employee subordinate to such head of the agency whose appointment is required to be made by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
SEC. 2. The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development is designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President:
(1) All authority which was vested in the Office of Emergency Preparedness, or the Director thereof, by the Disaster Relief Act of 1970, as amended, and which was transferred to the President by Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1973.
(2) All authority which was vested in the Director of the Office of Emergency Preparedness with respect to determining whether a major disaster has occurred within the meaning of (A) section 16 of the Act of September 23, 1950, as amended (20 U.S.C. 646), (B) section 7 of the Act of September 30, 1950, as amended (20 U.S.C. 241-1), and (C) section 762(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 as added by section 161(a) of the Education Amendments of 1972, Public Law 92-318, 86 Stat. 288 at 299 (relating to the furnishing by the Commissioner of Education of disaster relief assistance for educational purposes), and which was transferred to the President by Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1973.
SEC. 3. (a) There is hereby established the National Council on Federal Disaster Assistance (hereinafter referred to as the "Council") which shall be composed of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, who shall be the Chairman of the Council, and policy level repreentatives of the Departments of Defense; the Interior; Agriculture; Commerce; Labor; Health, Education, and Welfare; and Transportation; and of the Small Business Administration and the Office of Economic Opportunity, and such other members as the President may from time to time designate. This Council supersedes the National Council on Federal Disaster Assistance established by Executive Order No. 11526. Representatives of the other Federal departments or agencies, officials of State and local governments, and private citizens may be invited by the Chairman to participate in the deliberations of the Council.
(b) The Council shall advise and assist the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in: (1) Insuring that the Federal agencies furnish necessary assistance following a large-scale disaster on a priority basis to the Federal Coordinating Officer appointed by the President to operate under the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, pursuant to section 201 of the Disaster Relief Act of 1970; (2) developing policies and programs to provide a strong and integrated total Federal disaster assistance effort; (3) stimulating cooperation and the sharing of data, views, and information concerning disaster assistance among Federal agencies, State and local governments, and private organizations having disaster assistance responsibilities and interests; (4) facilitating cooperation among Federal, State, and local governments with special concern for the maintenance of local initiative and decision making with respect to emergency restoration and rebuilding programs; (5) promoting the participation of Federal agencies in providing Federal assistance for rebuilding efforts; (6) encouraging research on means of preventing disasters and ameliorating the effects of those that occur; (7) reviewing, from time to time, the effectiveness of the Federal disaster assistance programs and suggesting needed changes.
(c) Consistent with law, the Department of Housing and Urban Development shall provide staff and other assistance to the Council, and executive departments and agencies shall furnish to the Council such available information as the Council may require in performance of its functions.
(d) Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any Federal agency or officer, or any function vested by law in, or assigned, pursuant to law to, any Federal agency or officer to the authority of the Council or of any other agency or officer or as abrogating any such function in any manner.
SEC. 4. The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development is designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President all other incidental authority relating to matters described in sections 1 through 3 of this Executive order that has been vested in the Office of Emergency Preparedness or the Director thereof by the President by letter, memorandum, or other form of directive, or otherwise.
SEC. 5. (a) The Secretary of Defense is designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, all of the authority vested in the President by section 210 of the Act concerning the utilization and availability of the civil defense communications system for the purpose of disaster warnings.
(b) The Secretary of Agriculture is designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, all of the authority vested in the President by section 238 of the act concerning food coupons and surplus commodities.
SEC. 6. (a) Executive Order Nos. 11526, 11575, 11662, and 11678, and section 1 of Executive Order No. 11725 are hereby superseded.
(b) This order shall be effective thirty days after the date of its issuance.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
December 10, 1973.