By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
While the Federal Government pursues its national responsibility to prevent pollution of our air, water and land resources, no contribution to a better environment can match the exercise of individual responsibility. We must recognize that environmental improvement and protection require the commitment and positive action of each and every American.
We can have clean air, clean water, beautiful, open forests and shores, but all these will not improve our environment if our immediate surroundings are cluttered and degraded. Our most precious environment is the area in which we live—our city streets and rural towns. Environmental awareness goes far beyond the improvement of what we commonly refer to as our natural resources.
The spirit with which we work to enhance our lives must be one of: "I'll help, too." To dramatize this spirit, the Congress has by House Joint Resolution 695, 93rd Congress, designated the period of September 15 to October 15, 1973 as "Johnny Horizon '76 Clean Up America Month" and requested the President to issue a proclamation calling for observance of this month.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon
, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim "Clean Up America Month," and ask our Nation's attention to the Johnny Horizon '76 environmental awareness and action program for America's 200th birthday and related Bicentennial activities. I urge representatives of business, industry, labor, government, civic groups and other citizens to join together to demonstrate the significant results that can be realized when Americans translate their concerns into affirmative action. I further urge neighborhood and community cleanups, beautification programs, resource recovery and education programs, anti-litter campaigns, energy and wildlife conservation efforts and other worthwhile activities.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-eighth.
RICHARD NIXON