By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
For nearly two centuries, generations of Americans have cherished the blessing of self-government under the Constitution of the United States—that great charter which William Gladstone called "the most wonderful work ever struck off at a given time by the brain and purpose of man."
Borrowing what seemed best from other representative democracies and devising other elements out of their own genius, the framers of our Constitution erected the balanced and durable system that has weathered so many national crises so well over the decades since. The wise principles they built on—including a federal union of States, a bill of individual rights, and a division of powers among three coequal and independent branches of government—remain as vital today as they were in 1787 for the vigorous pursuit of public purposes and the restraint of arbitrary rule.
Experience has also taught us that constitutional government and democratic citizenship must go hand in hand, for only an informed and active citizenry can breathe life into the institutions of government. It is fitting, then, that the Congress by joint resolutions of February 29, 1952, and August 2,1956, has ordained that we honor the two together each September, by observing the anniversary of the signing of the Constitution as Citizenship Day and the week following that day as Constitution Week.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon
, President of the United States of America, call upon appropriate Government officials to display the flag of the United States on all Government buildings on Citizenship Day, September 17, 1973. I urge Federal, State, and local officials, as well as leaders of civic, educational and religious organizations to conduct appropriate ceremonies and programs on that day.
I also designate as Constitution Week the period beginning September 17 and ending September 23, 1973. I urge all Americans to observe the week with such commemorative and educational activities as may foster a better understanding of, and deeper reverence for, the Constitution of the United States.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third day of August, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-eighth.
RICHARD NIXON