On June 13, 1973, I ordered a freeze for a maximum period of 60 days on the prices of all commodities and services offered for sale except the prices charged for raw agricultural products. At that time, I stated that the freeze period would be used to develop a new and more effective system of controls to follow the freeze. Planning for the Phase IV program has proceeded rapidly and I have, therefore, decided that the freeze on food, except for beef, should be removed and more flexible controls substituted in a two-stage process in the food industry. The first stage will be effective at 4: 00 p.m., e.s.t., July 18, 1973. The freeze in other sectors of the economy will continue through August 12, 1973. I am also directing the Cost of Living Council to publish for comment now, proposed plans for Phase IV controls in other sectors of the economy. I have determined that this action is necessary to stabilize the economy, reduce inflation, minimize unemployment, improve the Nation's competitive position in world trade and protect the purchasing power of the dollar, all in the context of sound fiscal management and effective monetary policies.
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the United States, particularly the Economic Stabilization Act of 1970, as amended, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Executive Order 11723 establishing a freeze on prices effective 9: 00 p.m., e.s.t., June 13, 1973, for a maximum period of 60 days is hereby superseded except as hereinafter provided. Under the provisions of Executive Order 11695, the freeze regulations issued by the Cost of Living Council, pursuant to the authority of Executive Order 11723 remain in effect except as the Chairman of the Cost of Living Council may modify them. The price freeze established by Executive Order 11723 remains in effect until 11: 59 p.m., e.s.t., August 12, 1973, except to the extent the Chairman of the Cost of Living Council may modify it.
SEC. 2. All orders, regulations, circulars, rulings, notices or other directives issued and all other actions taken by any agency pursuant to Executive Order 11723, and in effect on the date of this order are hereby confirmed and ratified, and shall remain in full force and effect unless or until altered, amended, or revoked by the Chairman of the Cost of Living Council.
SEC. 3. This order shall not operate to defeat any suit, action, prosecution, or administrative proceeding, whether heretofore or hereafter commenced, with respect to any right possessed, liability incurred, or offense committed prior to this date.
SEC. 4. Executive Order 11695 continues to remain in full force and effect.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
July 18, 1973.