By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 205(a) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 486(a)), and as President of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. There is hereby established in the Executive Office of the President a Federal Property Council (hereinafter referred to as the Council). The Council shall be composed of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, the Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality, and such other members from the Executive Office of the President as the President may, from time to time, specify. The President shall designate one of the members to be Chairman of the Council, and shall designate its Executive Secretary.
SEC. 2. The Council shall:
(1) develop and review Federal real property policies with respect to their relationship to other policies and to the objectives of the executive branch of the Government and recommend to the President such Federal real property policies or reforms of policies as it deems necessary; and
(2) receive the reports made by the Administrator of General Services pursuant to section 3 of this order, as well as other reports relating to Federal real property requested by the Chairman, with particular attention to resolving conflicting claims on, and alternate uses for, any property described in those reports, and it shall make such reports and submit such recommendations to the President as may be appropriate.
SEC. 3 (a) The Administrator of General Services shall:
(1) conduct surveys of real property holdings of executive agencies on a continuing basis and in a manner consistent with the needs of the Council, to identify properties which are not utilized, are underutilized, or are not being put to their optimum use; and
(2) make reports to the President, through the Council, describing any property or portion thereof which has not been reported excess to the requirements of the holding agency and which, in the judgment of the Administrator is either not utilized, is underutilized, or is not being put to the optimum use, and which he recommends should be reported as excess property.
(b) The Administrator of General Services shall participate in the deliberations of the Council, where appropriate.
SEC. 4. As used in this order:
(1) the term "executive agency" means "executive agency" as defined in section 3 (a) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 472(a));
(2) the term "property", however modified, means real property or an interest therein, which is covered by the definition of "property" set forth in section 3(d) of the act (40 U.S.C. 472(d)), and also lands withdrawn or reserved from the public domain which are utilized by executive agencies for purposes other than national forests, national parks, or wildlife reserves; and
(3) the term "excess property" means "excess property" as defined in section 3(e) of the act (40 U.S.C. 472(e)).
SEC. 5. Executive agencies shall cooperate with the Council in the performance of its functions, and shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide it with such information, assistance, and staff support as may be needed to carry out those functions.
SEC. 6. Executive Order No. 11508 of February 10, 1970, and Executive Order No. 11560 of September 23, 1970, are hereby superseded, and the Property Review Board is hereby abolished.
SEC. 7. This order shall be effective as of July 1, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
June 25, 1973.