Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000d-2000d-4, prohibits discrimination on the ground of race, color, or national origin in programs and activities receiving Federal financial assistance. The agencies which extend such assistance have primary responsibility for effectuating title VI. Although the Attorney General is presently responsible for coordinating enforcement of title VI, it is appropriate to clarify and broaden the role of the Attorney General with respect to title VI enforcement.
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States by the Constitution and statutes of the United States, including section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. The Attorney General shall coordinate enforcement by Federal departments and agencies of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. He shall prescribe standards and procedures regarding implementation of title VI and shall assist the departments and agencies in accomplishing effective implementation. He may adopt such rules and regulations and issue such orders as he deems necessary to carry out his functions under this order.
SEC. 2. (a) Each Federal department and agency shall cooperate with the Attorney General in the performance of his functions under this order and shall furnish him such reports and information as he may request.
(b) Title VI compliance reviews and investigations shall be conducted by the departments and agencies in accord with standards and procedures established by the Attorney General.
(c) Whenever a department or agency ascertains noncompliance or probable noncompliance with title VI, steps to obtain compliance by voluntary means or to enforce title VI requirements shall be carried out in accord with standards and procedures established by the Attorney General.
SEC. 3. The authority vested in the President by section 602 of title VI, 42 U.S.C. 2000d-1, to approve rules, regulations, and orders of general applicability is hereby delegated to the Attorney General.
SEC. 4. Executive Order No. 11247 of September 24, 1965, is hereby superseded.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
January 21, 1974.