By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
Since the first settlers moved onto this continent centuries ago, America's forests have been one of our greatest resources. But no resource is inexhaustible. Only wise conservation and measured use can preserve our country's forest heritage.
One-third of the Nation's land area is still covered with forests. They contribute heavily to the economy and to our high standard of living by providing one-fifth of the industrial raw materials of the Nation. Moreover, our forests have long provided much more than raw materials. They are a source of water for domestic and commercial use; they provide homes and food for wildlife, and forage for livestock; and they have become America's outdoor playground, a haven for campers, hikers, hunters and fishermen.
It is only fitting that every spring we renew our commitment to the preservation of this priceless heritage.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon,
 President of the United States, do hereby call on all Americans to observe the week of March 17 through 23, 1974, as "American Forestry Week," with activities and ceremonies that recognize the full range of contributions of forests and forestry to the past, to the present, and to the future of America. In conjunction with this commemoration, I ask that we join with other Nations of the world in recognizing March 21, 1974, as "World Forestry Day," an activity sponsored by the European Federation of Agriculture and endorsed by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
To this end, I am directing the Secretary of Agriculture to instruct the Chief of the Forest Service to work with all organizations, institutions, groups, and individuals interested in carrying out appropriate activities in joint recognition of "American Forestry Week" and "World Forestry Day."
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-eighth.
RICHARD NIXON