By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
As America enters its second year of peace after a decade of conflict, it is highly appropriate for us to acknowledge the debt we owe to those veterans who served in the Armed Forces during the conflict in Southeast Asia. The untiring devotion that characterized our Armed Forces during this trying conflict is a tribute to the national character. 
There are over six and one-half million Vietnam-era veterans, of whom more than two and one-half million served in Vietnam. Despite significant disruptions in their lives and other personal sacrifices, they answered the call of their country and served with great distinction. 
As a Nation, we have acknowledged our deep respect and admiration by setting aside March 29, 1974, as Vietnam Veterans Day to remember that the honorable peace America achieved came through great sacrifice. Those who served, those who gave their lives, those who were disabled, and those who are still missing in Southeast Asia--and whose full accounting we shall continue to seek--deserve the profound gratitude of their countrymen. For this purpose, the Congress has authorized and requested me to issue a proclamation designating March 29, 1974, as Vietnam Veterans Day. 
Now, Therefore, I, Richard M. Nixon,
 President of the United States of America, urge the people of this Nation to join in commemorating Friday, March 29, 1974, as Vietnam Veterans Day with suitable observances. 
I direct the appropriate officials of the Government to arrange for the display of the flag of the United States on all public buildings on that day; and I request officials of Federal, State, and local Governments, and civic and patriotic organizations, to give their enthusiastic support to appropriate ceremonies and observances throughout the Nation. 
I urge all citizens of every age to participate in the events of this day as one means of honoring those men and women who served their country faithfully and courageously during the Vietnam conflict. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-sixth day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-eighth. 
RICHARD NIXON