By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
Through their vigilance and fortitude, our Armed Forces have preserved our independence as a Nation. Today they serve as the bulwark of our freedom as we strive for lasting world peace.
The responsibility of the more than 2 million fine men and women in the Armed Forces of the United States is an awesome one and, in doing their duty, they exemplify the spirit, courage and patriotism that have made America a great Nation.
It is particularly fitting that we should recognize their sacrifices today, at a time when the prospect for a future free of war is the brightest in years. We must never forget that it is those who wear our country's uniform who have made this prospect possible.
Having defended us in time of war, they stand today as guardians of an honorable peace. Honor and gratitude are their due from this generation of Americans and from generations yet unborn.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard M. Nixon,
 President of the United States of America and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States, do hereby proclaim the third Saturday of each May as Armed Forces Day.
I direct the Secretary of Defense on behalf of the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps, and the Secretary of Transportation on behalf of the Coast Guard, to plan for appropriate observances each year, with the Secretary of Defense responsible for soliciting the participation and cooperation of civil authorities and private citizens.
I invite the Governors of the States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and other areas subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, to provide for the observance of Armed Forces Day within their jurisdiction each year in an appropriate manner designed to enhance public understanding and appreciation of the Armed Forces of the United States as protectors of freedom at home and abroad.
I call upon my fellow Americans to proudly display the flag of the United States at their homes on Armed Forces Day.
Proclamation No. 3655 of May 7, 1965, is hereby superseded.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-eighth.
RICHARD NIXON