By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Although our Nation's 200th birthday is less than two years away, much has been accomplished through the Johnny Horizon '76 Program toward improving the environment of our country for this historic event. But much remains to be done. To date, thousands of schools; churches; youth groups; chambers of commerce; conservation, civic and commercial organizations and millions of private citizens have joined in partnership with Johnny Horizon '76 in a wide range of projects to create environmental awareness and to beautify America. 
Our most precious environment is the area in which we live-our city streets and rural towns-and this is where each individual can effectively exercise his responsibility. This has been exemplified by the many action projects which have been undertaken thus far across our country. 
We need to continue these improvements. To dramatize this need, the Congress has by House Joint Resolution 1070, 93rd Congress, requested the President to proclaim the period of September 15, 1974, to October 15, 1974, as "Johnny Horizon '76 Clean Up America Month." 
Now, THEREFORE, 1, GERALD R. FORD, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the period September 15 through October 15, 1974, as Johnny Horizon '76 Clean Up America Month and ask our Nation's at to the Johnny Horizon '76 environmental awareness and action program for America's 200th birthday and related Bicentennial activities. I urge representatives of business, industry, labor, Government, civic groups, and other citizens to continue to join together to demonstrate the significant results that can be realized when Americans translate their concern into affirmative action. I further urge a continuation of neighborhood and community cleanups, beautification programs, resource recovery and education programs, energy and wildlife conservation efforts and other worthwhile activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-four and of the Independence of the United States of America, the one hundred ninety-ninth. 
GERALD R. FORD