In my address to the Congress on October 8, 1974, I expressed my intention to create a new National Energy Board, under the chairmanship of the Secretary of the Interior, to develop, coordinate, and assure the implementation of Federal energy policy. Subsequent to my delivery of that address, the Congress completed action on the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 which I have just approved into law. Section 108 of that act creates in the Executive Office of the President a new Energy Resources Council which would be charged with performing functions that are essentially the same as those I had intended to assign to the National Energy Board. Consequently, I have determined that it would serve no useful purpose to create that Board. Instead, I am now exercising the authority vested in me by section 108 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, to activate immediately the Energy Resources Council, to designate the Secretary of the Interior as its Chairman, and to designate additional officials as members thereof. 
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States of America by the Constitution and laws of the United States, particularly section 108 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. Section 108 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 shall be effective as of the date of this order and the Energy Resources Council shall be deemed to have been activated as of that date. 
SEC. 2. The Council shall consist of the Secretary of the Interior, who shall be its Chairman, the Assistant to the President for Economic Affairs, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Transportation, the Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, the Administrator of the Federal Energy Administration, the Administrator of the Energy Research and Development Administration (upon entry into office), the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality, the Director of the National Science Foundation, the Executive Director of the Domestic Council, and such other members as the President may, from time to time, designate. 
SEC. 3. The Energy Resources Council shall perform such functions as are assigned to it by section 108 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, shall develop a single national energy policy and program, and shall perform such other functions as may be assigned to it, from time to time, by the President. 
SEC. 4. All departments and agencies shall cooperate with the Council and shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide it with such assistance and information as the Chairman of the Council may request. 
SEC. 5. The Committee on Energy, the establishment of which was announced on June 14, 1974, is hereby abolished. 
SEC. 6. The Council shall terminate in accordance with the provisions of section 108 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974. 
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
October 11, 1974.