By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
America approaches the 200th anniversary of national independence at a time when events at home and abroad demonstrate the interdependence of the community of nations. 
Interdependence and its impact on all Americans is particularly apparent in world trade. 
Through world trade, Americans expand with others the flow of goods and services to all peoples and enhance the economic well-being of all countries. In so doing, we recommit the United States to an open world economic order and reconfirm our pledge to international peace and understanding. 
The Congress of the United States underscored America's dedication to more free and fair international commerce with passage of the Trade Act of 1974. That act enables us to move toward multilateral negotiations that will open the way to improved access to foreign markets for American goods and to vital raw materials. 
In the face of economic stress at home, more exports mean more jobs for Americans, more purchasing power for America's consumers and more business for our manufacturers. Exports help us meet the swiftly rising cost of the energy we consume. They are the source of equilibrium in our balance of payments. 
World trade joins nations in peaceful and creative partnership. It has greater significance today than ever before. 
Now, Therefore, I, Gerald R. Ford,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning May 18, 1975, as World Trade Week, and I call upon all Americans to cooperate in observing that week by participating with the business community and all levels of government in activities that emphasize the importance of world trade to the United States economy and to our relations with other nations. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-ninth. 
GERALD R. FORD