By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 5317 of title 5 of the United States Code, it is ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. The following offices and positions are placed in level IV of the Executive Schedule: 
(1) Administrator, Social and Rehabilitation Service, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. 
(2) Director, National Institutes of Health, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. 
(3) Administrator, Health Services Administration, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. 
(4) Director, United States Secret Service, Department of the Treasury. 
(5) Associate Directors, (4) Office of Management and Budget, Executive Office of the President. 
(6) Director of Telecommunications and Command Control Systems, Department of Defense. 
(7) Principal Deputy Director of Defense Research and Engineering, Department of Defense. 
(8) Deputy Under Secretary for International Labor Affairs, Department of Labor. 
(9) Deputy Under Secretary, Department of Transportation. 
(10) Assistant to the Secretary for Congressional Affairs, Department of Commerce. 
(11) Special Prosecutor, Department of Justice. 
(12) Associate Attorney General, Department of Justice. 
(13) Adviser to the Secretary (Counselor, Economic Policy Board), Department of the Treasury, to terminate effective June 1, 1975. 
SEC. 2. The following offices and positions are placed in level V of the Executive Schedule: 
(1) Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), Department of Defense. 
(2) Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs, Department of Defense. 
(3) Assistant Secretary, Comptroller, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. 
(4) Deputy Commissioner of Social Security, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. 
(5) Commissioner on Aging, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. 
(6) Deputy Director, United States Secret Service, Department of the Treasury. 
(7) Assistant to the Secretary and Director, Office of Revenue Sharing, Department of the Treasury. 
(8) Commissioner, Automated Data and Telecommunications Service, General Services Administration. 
(9) Associate Administrator for Federal Management Policy, General Services Administration. 
(10) Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary (International Security Affairs), Department of Defense. 
(11) Executive Director, Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, Department of Labor. 
(12) Administrator for Pension and Welfare Benefits, Department of Labor. 
SEC. 3. Nothing in this order shall be deemed to terminate or otherwise affect the appointment, or to require the reappointment, of any occupant of any position listed in section 1 or section 2 of this order who was the occupant of that position immediately before the issuance of this order. 
SEC. 4. Executive Order No. 11768 of February 20, 1974, as amended, is hereby superseded. 
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
May 21, 1975.