By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, and as President of the United States of America, in order to include the Department of Commerce and the Federal Energy Administration in the Regional Council System and thus expand interagency cooperation and improve the coordination of services to the States, consistent with Section 401(d) of the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 1103, 42 U.S.C. 4231(d)), it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. Subsection (a) of Section 1 of Executive Order No. 11647 of February 10, 1972, as amended by Executive Order No. 11731 of July 23, 1973, is amended to read as follows: 
"(a) There is hereby continued a Federal Regional Council for each of the ten standard Federal regions. The President shall designate one member of each Council as Chairman. Representatives of the Office of Management and Budget may participate in any deliberations of each Council. Each Council shall be composed of the principal regional officials of the following departments and agencies: 
(1) The Department of the Interior. 
(2) The Department of Agriculture. 
(3) The Department of Commerce. 
(4) The Department of Labor. 
(5) The Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. 
(6) The Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
(7) The Department of Transportation. 
(8) The Community Services Administration. 
(9) The Environmental Protection Agency. 
(10) The Federal Energy Administration. 
(11) The Law Enforcement Assistance Administration.". 
SEC. 2. Section 3 of Executive Order No. 11647 of February 10, 1972, as amended by Executive Order No. 11731 of July 23, 1973, is amended to read as follows: 
"Sec. 3. Under Secretaries Group for Regional Operations. (a) The Under Secretaries Group for Regional Operations is hereby continued and shall be composed of the following: 
(1) The Under Secretary of the Interior. 
(2) The Under Secretary of Agriculture. 
(3) The Under Secretary of Commerce. 
(4) The Under Secretary of Labor. 
(5) The Under Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare. 
(6) The Under Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. 
(7) The Deputy Secretary of Transportation. 
(8) The Deputy Director of the Community Services Administration. 
(9) The Deputy Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. 
(10) The Deputy Administrator of the Federal Energy Administration. 
(11) The Administrator of the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration. 
(12) An Associate Director of the Domestic Council. 
(13) The Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget, who shall be Chairman. 
"(b) When the Chairman determines that matters which significantly affect the interests of a Federal agency not represented on the Group are to be considered by the Group, he shall invite an appropriate representative of the agency involved to participate in the deliberations of the Group. 
"(c) The Under Secretaries Group for Regional Operations shall, consistent with the objectives and priorities established by the President and the Domestic Council, establish policy with respect to Federal Regional Council matters provide guidance to the Council, respond to their initiatives, and seek to resolve policy issues referred to it by the Councils. The Under Secretaries Group, under the Chairmanship of the Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget, shall be responsible for the proper functioning of the system established by this Order." 
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
December 31, 1975.