By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and as President of the United States of America, and to further the implementation of section 459 of the Social Security Act, as added by the Social Services Amendments of 1974 (88 Stat. 2357, 42 U.S.C. 659), it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. (a) This order is applicable to all executive agencies of the Federal Government which make any payment of money, the entitlement to which is based upon remuneration for employment, to any individual. 
(b) "Executive agency" means all departments, independent establishments, wholly-owned Federal corporations, and all agencies, boards, commissions, councils, bodies, groups, entities, organizations or instrumentalities of the Federal Government, including advisory bodies, except those in the legislative or judicial branches of the Federal Government. 
SEC. 2. The Civil Service Commission shall, in consultation with the Department of justice, issue regulations for the uniform implementation by all executive agencies of section 459 of the Social Security Act. The regulations shall establish standards for determining what constitutes remuneration for employment, shall provide procedures to facilitate appropriate service of process upon an executive agency, and shall establish such other standards and procedures as are necessary or appropriate for the uniform implementation of this order and section 459 of the Social Security Act. Such regulations may require that executive agency regulations be issued as appendices thereto. 
SEC. 3. Each executive agency shall issue such rules, regulations and directives, pursuant to and in accord with those issued by the Civil Service Commission pursuant to this order, as are necessary to implement the regulations of the Civil Service Commission, this order and section 459 of the Social Security Act. 
SEC. 4. Regulations issued pursuant to this order 'by the Civil Service Commission and all other executive agencies shall be made available to the public by publication in the Federal Register. 
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
October 3, 1975.