By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Executive Order No. 10973 of November 3, 1961, as amended, is hereby amended by adding at the end of Part III a new section 306, as follows: 
"Sec. 306. Development Coordination Committee. (a) In accordance with section 640B of the act, there is hereby established a Development Coordination Committee (hereinafter referred to as the Committee). The Committee shall consist of the Administrator of the Agency for International Development, who shall be Chairman; the Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs; the Under Secretary of the Treasury for Monetary Affairs; the Under Secretary of Commerce; the Under Secretary of Agriculture; the Under Secretary of Labor; the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations; an Associate Director of the Office of Management and Budget; the Executive Director of the Council on International Economic Policy; a representative of the Assistant to the President for national security affairs; the President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States; and the President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. 
"(b) Whenever matters within the jurisdiction of the Committee may be of interest to Federal agencies not represented on the Committee under paragraph (a) of this section, the Chairman of the Committee may consult with such agencies and may invite them to designate representatives to participate in meetings and deliberations of the Committee. 
"(c) Under the foreign policy guidance of the Secretary of State, the Committee shall advise the President with respect to coordination of United States policies and programs affecting the development of the developing countries, including programs of bilateral and multilateral development assistance. 
"(d) All agencies and officers of the Government shall keep the Committee informed in necessary detail as to the policies, programs, and activities referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section. 
"(e) Nothing herein shall be deemed to derogate from the responsibilities of the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, or from responsibilities vested elsewhere by law or other Executive orders." 
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
February 28, 1975.