By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Each year, throughout the world, nations commemorate October 24 as United Nations Day. This year is the 30th Anniversary of the United Nations Charter. Originally with 51 nations as members, the United Nations today includes 141 nations, thus membership is nearly universal. 
The primary purpose of the United Nations is to maintain international peace and security. Had the work of the organization included nothing more than its efforts for peace in the Middle East-through truce observers, emergency forces, and mediation services-it would have justified its existence. But its record of achievement is far greater, and it continues to face new tasks with skill and imagination. 
Today, the United Nations is adjusting to the new realities of economic interdependence. At the Seventh Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly in September of this year, great progress was made toward reaching agreements through which the interests of all nations-less developed as well as developed-can be promoted through cooperative action. In the field of economic development, as in peacekeeping, the United Nations has proved its usefulness to all its members. 
The United Nations also has accelerated its efforts to stress the individual rights of women and the need to use their talents for the progress of society. By its designation of 1975 as "International Women's Year" the United Nations has recognized the importance of women's increasing contributions to the cause of peace and friendly relations among the Nations of the world. 
Many important tasks are still before the United Nations. These include agreements on Law of the Sea, procedures to eliminate torture and efforts to control debilitating diseases. We cannot be satisfied until great progress has been made in these and other areas of international concern. 
I ask the American people to look at the United Nations with true perspective-neither exaggerating its accomplishments nor ignoring its shortcomings, but seeing clearly its record and its potential for constructive action in the best interests of the United States and of all other members. 
Now, Therefore, I, Gerald R. Ford,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate Friday, October 24, 1975, as United Nations Day. I urge the citizens of this Nation to observe that day with community programs that will promote the United Nations and its affiliated agencies. 
I have appointed H. J. Haynes to be United States National Chairman for United Nations Day and, through him, I call upon State and local officials to encourage citizens' groups and all agencies of communication to engage in appropriate observances of United Nations Day in cooperation with the United Nations Association of the United States of America and other interested organizations. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundredth. 
GERALD R. FORD