By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution of the United States of America, and as President of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. Section 9 of Executive Order No. 11803 of September 16, 1974, as amended, is amended to read: 
"The Board shall submit its final recommendations to the President not later than September 15, 1975, at which time it shall cease to exist." 
SEC. 2. Any applications for Executive clemency, as to which the Presidential Clemency Board (established by Executive Order No. 11803) has not taken final action shall be transferred, together with the files related thereto, to the Attorney General. 
SEC. 3. The Attorney General, with respect to the applications and related files transferred to him by Section 2 of this Order, shall take all actions appropriate or necessary to complete the clemency process and shall expeditiously report to the President his findings and recommendations as to whether Executive clemency should be granted or denied in any case. In performing his responsibilities under this Order, the Attorney General shall apply the relevant criteria and comply with the appropriate and applicable instructions and procedures established by Executive Order No. 11803 of September 16, 1974, as amended, Proclamation No. 4313 of September 16, 1974, as amended, Executive Order No. 11804 of September 16, 1974, and, to the extent that he deems appropriate, the regulations of the Presidential Clemency Board and the Selective Service System issued pursuant to the foregoing Executive orders. 
SEC. 4. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget is hereby designated and empowered to take such action as he deems necessary to ensure the orderly and prompt termination of the activities of the Presidential Clemency Board and the assignment of responsibilities directed by this Order. 
SEC:. 5. Departments and agencies in the Executive branch shall, to the extent permitted by law, cooperate with and assist the Attorney General, the Director of the Selective Service and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget in the performance of their responsibilities under this Order. 
SEC. 6. The responsibilities assigned under this Order are to be completed no later than March 31, 1976, at which time the Attorney General shall submit his final recommendations to the President. 
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
September 10, 1975.