By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
In this, our Nation's 200th year, Memorial Day has special significance. As we honor those who gave their lives that our experiment with liberty might succeed, we can be proud of what America has accomplished. We are-at peace. Our Nation and our way of life endure. The sacrifices of 200 years have preserved both individual freedom and national unity. 
As we mark this milestone of our national independence, however, we must not forget the lessons of history. Other nations have risen to great heights only to weaken in their resolve. We must not repeat their error. We must remain strong in our defense and steadfast in our resolve to uphold the principles with which we began two centuries ago. 
In accord with the request of the Congress, by joint resolution of May 11, 1950 (64 Stat. 158), let us especially pray on Memorial Day that our continued resolve and our eternal vigilance will bring lasting peace to peoples yearning for peace, and that our honored dead shall not have died in vain. 
Now, Therefore, I, Gerald R. Ford,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate Memorial Day, Monday, May 31, 1976, as a day of prayer for permanent peace, and I designate the hour beginning in each locality at 11 o'clock in the morning of that day as a time to unite in prayer. 
I urge the press, radio, television, and all other information media to join in this observance. 
I also call upon the appropriate officials of all levels of government to fly the flag at half-staff until noon during Memorial Day on all buildings, grounds, and naval vessels throughout the United States and in all areas under its jurisdiction and control, and I request the people of the United States to display the flag at half-staff from their homes for the same customary forenoon period. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundredth. 
GERALD R. FORD