By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Trade Act of 1974, hereinafter referred to as the Act (19 U.S.C. 2101 et seq.), Sections 332(g) and 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1332(8), 19 U.S.C. 1337, respectively), and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States of America, Executive Order No. 11846 of March 27, 1975, as amended, hereinafter referred to as the Order, is hereby amended as follows: 
SECTION 1. Section's 3 (e) and (f) of the Order are redesignated as Sections 3 (f) and (g), respectively, and a new Section 3(e) is added as follows: 
"(e) A copy of each determination, and the action taken with respect thereto, together with the record which the United States International Trade Commission, hereinafter referred to as the International Trade Commission, is required to transmit to the President, under the terms of Section 337(8) (1) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, shall be transmitted to the President through the Special Representative.". 
SEC. 2. Section 4(c) of the Order is amended, in order to delegate authority under Section 131(a) of the Act, to read as follows: 
"(c) The functions of the President under Section 131(a) of the Act, with respect to publishing and furnishing to the International Trade Commission lists of articles, are delegated to the Special Representative. The functions of the President under Section 131(c) of the Act with respect to advice of the International Trade Commission and under Section 132 of the Act with respect to advice of the departments of the Federal Government and other sources, are delegated to the Special Representative. The functions of the President under Section 133 of the Act with respect to public hearings in connection with certain trade negotiations are delegated to the Special Representative, who shall designate an interagency committee to hold and conduct any such hearings.". 
SEC 3. Section 4 of the Order is further amended by adding the following new subsection (g) 
"(g.) All reports, findings, advice, determinations, hearing transcripts, briefs, and information which, under the terms of the Act, the International Trade Commission is required to furnish to the President shall be transmitted to the President through the Special Representative.". 
SEC. 4. Section 8 of the Order is amended by adding the following new subsections (c) and (d) 
"(c) The Committee, through the Special Representative, shall perform the functions of the President specified in Section 503 (a) of the Act, with respect to publishing and furnishing to the International Trade Commission lists of articles that may be considered for designation as eligible articles for purposes of the Generalized System of Preferences. 
"(d) The Committee, through the Special Representative, to the extent necessary to determine the applicability of the provisions of Section 504(d) of the Act to any eligible article, shall perform the functions of the President under Section 332(g) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, with respect to requests for investigations by, and reports from, the International Trade Commission.". 
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
November 8, 1976.