By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Drug abuse remains one of the most persistent and serious problems in the United States today. It affects every segment of bur society and every region of our country. 
We have learned that there is no one answer to the drug problem. Drug abuse prevention requires a balanced approach by law enforcement agencies, research and treatment by all levels of government and full support in the private sector. 
We have made great progress in combating drug abuse. With the help of States, local governments and community groups, the Federal government has developed programs to control the drug supply through law enforcement and to reduce the demand for drugs through treatment, research and prevention. The United States has also initiated extensive negotiations with other countries in an attempt to develop international cooperation to control the flow of illicit drug traffic. 
To be truly effective, however, drug abuse prevention must begin at the community level, by the creation of positive environments which reduce the conditions leading to drug abuse. Communities across the country have recognized this need and have initiated programs involving adults and young people working together to improve their communities and to provide services for their people. The keystone for these programs is the creative involvement of youth and the cooperation of adults. The important goal is drug abuse prevention. 
Now, Therefore, I, Gerald R. Ford,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate and proclaim the week beginning October 17, 1976, as Drug Abuse Prevention Week. 
I call upon officials at every level of government, upon educators, law enforcement officers, medical professionals and communicators, upon the business community, civic groups and the clergy of every denomination, and upon all who bear the trust of community leadership to rededicate themselves to the prevention of drug abuse in America. 
I ask for the creative thinking and planning of all our citizens either in establishing drug abuse programs in communities where none now exist or in reaffirming their support of currently active programs. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and first. 
GERALD R. FORD