By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, and in order to provide for consistent implementation within the Federal Government of section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. The Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare shall coordinate the Implementation of section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, hereinafter referred to as section 504, by all Federal departments and agencies empowered to extend Federal financial assistance to any program or activity. The Secretary shall establish standards for determining who are handicapped individuals and guidelines for determining what are discriminatory practices, within the meaning of section 504. The Secretary shall assist Federal departments and agencies to coordinate their programs and activities and shall consult with such departments and agencies, as necessary so that consistent policies, practices, and procedures are adopted with respect to the enforcement of section 504. 
SEC. 2. In order to implement the provisions of section 504, each Federal department and agency empowered to provide Federal financial assistance shall issue rules, regulations, and directives, consistent with the standards and procedures established by the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare. 
SEC. 3. (a) Whenever the appropriate department or agency determines, upon all the information available to it, that any recipient of, or applicant for, Federal financial assistance is in noncompliance with the requirements adopted pursuant to this order, steps to secure voluntary compliance shall be carried out in accordance with standards and procedures established pursuant to this order. 
(b) If voluntary compliance cannot be secured by informal means, compliance with section 504 may be effected by the suspension or termination of, or refusal to award or continue, Federal financial assistance or by other appropriate means authorized by law, in accordance with standards and procedures established pursuant to this order. 
(c) No such suspension or termination of, or refusal to award or continue, Federal financial assistance shall become effective unless there has been an express finding, after opportunity for a hearing, of a failure by the recipient of, or applicant for, Federal financial assistance to comply with the requirements adopted pursuant to this order; however, such suspension or termination of, or refusal to award or continue, Federal financial assistance shall be limited in its effect to the particular program or activity or part thereof with respect to which there has been such a finding of noncompliance. 
SEC. 4. Each Federal department and agency shall furnish the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare such reports and information as the Secretary requests and shall cooperate with the Secretary in the implementation of section 504. 
SEC. 5. The Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare may adopt rules and regulations and issue orders which he deems are necessary to carry out his responsibilities under this order. The Secretary shall ensure that such rules, regulations, and orders are not inconsistent with, or duplicative of, other Federal Government policies relating to the handicapped, including those policies adopted in accordance with sections 501, 502, and 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, or the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4151 et seq.) 
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
April 28, 1976.