By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
In this Bicentennial year, we have many opportunities to recall that the greatness of America is founded upon appreciation of our heritage and upon knowledge of the historic events that have shaped our national identity. 
One of the most important sources of our sense of national direction is our architectural heritage-the historic sites, structures and landmarks that link us physically with our past. This great fund of cultural resources includes not only sites such as well-known battlefields and structures of national significance such as the homes of famous patriots, but also includes typical houses, office buildings, factories, and stores, and other public buildings such as post offices, courthouses, and railroad stations. Along the streets of our cities and towns and in our rural areas, these sometimes humble but historic properties remind us of the accomplishments of our predecessors and, thereby, help to provide a continuity and historical perspective that are so important to the cultural heritage of any great nation. 
We are a vigorous and mobile people, often oriented more toward the future than the past. It is important for us to preserve our physical heritage in the face of progress. 
So, it is a pleasure to note the efforts of those in the historic preservation movement, in both the public and private sector, who have led the movement to preserve these unique and irreplaceable inheritances of the past. An invaluable contribution by them has been to demonstrate how these historic structures of all types can meet the needs of contemporary society and at the same time add to the richness of our cultural heritage. 
Now, Therefore, I, Gerald R. Ford,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the calendar week beginning May 9, 1976, as National Historic Preservation Week. I call upon Government agencies at all levels, interested private individuals and organizations, and all concerned citizens, to mark this observance with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this seventh day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-six, and the Independence of the United States of America the two hundredth. 
GERALD R. FORD