By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, including section 801 of the Federal Aviation Act, as amended (49 U.S.C. 1461), and as President of the United States of America, solely to provide Presidential guidance to department and agency heads and in order to facilitate Presidential review of decisions submitted to the President for his approval by the Civil Aeronautics Board pursuant to section 801 of the Federal Aviation Act, as amended, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. (a) Except as provided in this section, decisions of the Civil Aeronautics Board, hereinafter referred to as the CAB, transmitted to the President pursuant to section 801 of the Federal Aviation Act, as amended, hereinafter referred to as section 801, may be made available by the CAB for public inspection and copying following submission to the President. 
(b) In the interests of national security, and in order to allow for consideration of appropriate action under Executive Order No. 11652, as amended, decisions of the CAB transmitted to the President under section 801 shall be withheld from public disclosure for five days after submission to the President. 
(c) At the same time that decisions of the CAB are submitted to the President pursuant to section 801, the CAB shall transmit copies thereof to the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense and the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs. 
(d) The Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense, or their designees, shall review the decisions of the CAB transmitted pursuant to subsection (c) above, and shall promptly advise the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs or his designee, whether, and if so, why, action pursuant to Executive Order No. 11652, as amended, is deemed appropriate. If, after considering the above recommendations, the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs or his designee determines that classification under Executive Order No. 11652 is appropriate, he shall take such action and immediately so inform the CAB. Action pursuant to this subsection shall be completed within five days of receipt of the decision by the President. 
(e) On and after the sixth day following receipt by the President of a CAB decision submitted pursuant to section 801, the CAB is authorized to disclose all unclassified portions of the text of such decision. Nothing in this section is intended to affect the ability to withhold material under Executive order or statute other than section 801. 
SEC. 2. (a) Views of departments and agencies outside of the Executive Office of the President, other than those views involving considerations of defense or foreign policy (including international negotiations costs) which are to be the subject of recommendations to the President in connection with his review under section 801, shall be presented to the CAB in accordance with the procedures of the CAB. While some issues will inevitably involve both questions of regulatory policy and defense or foreign policy, departments and agencies outside of the Executive Office of the President should make a conscientious effort to present their views on regulatory matters in proceedings before the CAB, and raise only matters of defense or foreign policy that are of Presidential concern in the course of the review under section 801. 
(b) Departments and agencies outside of the Executive Office of the President which intend to make recommendations to the President on matters of defense or foreign policy and have such intentions while the matter is pending before the CAB, shall, except, as confidentiality is required for reasons of defense or foreign policy, make the existence of such intentions and the conclusions to be recommended known to the CAB in the course of its proceedings. 
SEC. 3. (a) In advising the President with respect to his review of an order submitted to him pursuant to section 801, departments and agencies outside of the Executive Office of the President shall: 
(1) identify any matter contained in their respective recommendations which was not previously submitted to the CAB pursuant to section 2(a) above; 
(2) explain why such matter was not previously submitted to the CAB for its consideration; and 
(3) identify with particularity the defense or foreign policy implications of the CAB decision which are deemed appropriate for the President's consideration. 
(b) Orders involving foreign and overseas air transportation certificates of U.S. carriers that are subject to the approval of the President are not subject to judicial review when the President approves or disapproves an order for reasons of defense or foreign policy. All disapprovals necessarily are based on such a Presidential decision, but approval by the President does not necessarily imply the existence of any defense or foreign policy reason. For the purpose of assuring whatever opportunity is available under the law for judicial review of the CAB decisions, all departments and agencies which make recommendations to the President pursuant to section 801 should indicate separately whether, and why, if the order or any portion of the order is approved, the President cannot state in his approval that no defense or foreign policy reason underlies his action. 
SEC. 4. Individuals within the Executive Office of the President shall follow a policy of (a) refusing/to discuss matters relating to the disposition of a case subject to the approval of the President under section 801 with any interested private party, or an attorney or agent for any such party, prior to the President's decision, and (b) referring any written communication from an interested private party, or an attorney or agent for any such party, to the appropriate department or agency outside of the Executive Office of the President. Exceptions to this policy may only be made when the head of an appropriate department or agency outside of the Executive Office of the President personally finds that direct written or oral communication between a private party and a person within the Executive Office of the President is needed for reasons of defense or foreign policy. 
SEC. 5. Departments and agencies outside of the Executive Office of the President which regularly make recommendations to the President in connection with the Presidential review pursuant to section 801 shall, consistent with applicable law, including the provisions of Chapter 5 of Title 5 of the United States Code: 
(a) establish public dockets for all written communications (other than those requiring confidential treatment for defense or foreign policy reasons) between their officers and employees and private parties in connection with the preparation of such recommendations; and 
(b) prescribe such other procedures governing oral and written communications as they deem appropriate. 
SEC. 6. Although it is recognized that the provisions set forth in this Order will frequently apply to review of decisions made in adversary proceedings involving private parties, this Order is intended solely for the internal guidance of the departments and agencies in order to facilitate the Presidential review process. This Order does not confer rights on any private parties. 
SEC. 7 The provisions of this Order shall be effective on the 30th day following publication in the FEDERAL REGISTER. 
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
June 10, 1976.