OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATION IN THE EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT 
By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, including the National Security Act of 1947, as amended, Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1970 (5 U.S.C. App. II), Section 202 of the Budget and Accounting Procedures Act of 1950 (31 U.S.C. 581c), and Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1977 (42 FR 56101 (October 21, 1977) ), and as President of the United States of America, in order to effectuate the establishment of the Office of Administration in the Executive Office of the President, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. The establishment, provided by Section 2 of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1977 (42 FR 56101), of the Office of Administration in the Executive Office of the President shall be effective, as authorized by Section 7 of that Plan, on December 4, 1977. 
SEC. 2. The Director of the Office of Administration, hereinafter referred to as the Director, shall report to the President. As the chief administrative officer of the Office of Administration, the Director shall be responsible for ensuring that the Office of Administration provides units within the Executive Office of the President common administrative support and services. 
SEC. 3. (a) The Office of Administration shall provide common administrative support and services to all units within the Executive Office of the President, except for such services provided primarily in direct support of the President. The Office of Administration shall, upon request, assist the White House Office in performing its role of providing those administrative services which are primarily in direct support of the President. 
(b) The common administrative support and services provided by the Office of Administration shall encompass all types of administrative support and services that may be used by, or useful to, units within the Executive Office of the President. Such services and support shall include, but not be limited to, providing support services in the following administrative areas: 
(1) personnel management services, including equal employment opportunity programs;
(2) financial management services; 
(3) data processing, including support and services; 
(4) library, records, and information services; 
(5) office services and operations, including: mail, messenger, printing and duplication, graphics, word processing, procurement, and supply services; and 
(6) any other administrative support or service which will achieve financial savings and increase efficiency through centralization of the supporting service. 
(c) Administrative support and services shall be provided to all units within the Executive Office of the President in a manner consistent with available funds and other resources, or in accord with Section 7 of the Act of May 21, 1920 (41 Stat. 613), as amended (31 U.S.C. 686, referred to as the Economy Act). 
SEC. 4. (a) Subject to such direction or approval that the President may provide or require, the Director shall: 
(1) organize the Office of Administration;
(2) employ personnel; 
(3) contract for supplies or services; and 
(4) do all other things that the President, as head of the Office of Administration, might do. 
(b) The Director shall not be accountable for the program and management responsibilities of units within the Executive Office of the President; the head of each unit shall remain responsible for those functions. 
SEC. 5. The primary responsibility for performing all administrative support and service functions of units within the Executive Office of the President shall be transferred and reassigned to the Office of Administration; except to the extent those functions are vested by law in the head of such a unit, other than the President; and except to the extent those functions are performed by the White House Office primarily in direct support of the President. 
SEC. 6. The records, property, personnel, and unexpended balances of appropriations, available or to be made available, which relate to the functions transferred 'or reassigned by this Order from units within the Executive Office of the President to the Office of Administration, shall be transferred to the Office of Administration. 
SEC. 7. (a) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall make such determinations, issue such orders, and take all actions necessary or appropriate to effectuate the transfers or reassignments provided by this Order, including the transfer of funds, records, property, and personnel. 
(b) Such transfers shall become effective on April 1, 1978, or at such earlier time or times as the Director of the Office of Management and Budget determines, after consultation with the Director of the Office of Administration and other appropriate units within the Executive Office of the President. 
JIMMY CARTER
The White House, 
December 12, 1977. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 3:37 p.m., December 12, 1977]