PERMITTING STUDENTS COMPLETING APPROVED CAREER-RELATED WORK-STUDY PROGRAMS TO BE APPOINTED TO CAREER OR CAREER-CONDITIONAL POSITIONS IN THE COMPETITIVE SERVICE 
By virtue of the authority vested in me by Sections 3301 and 3302 of Title 5 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. As used in this order "career-related work-study programs" are those programs established by the United States Civil Service Commission which provide for a formally-arranged schedule of periods of attendance at an accredited school combined with periods of career-related work in a Federal agency under a Schedule B appointment. 
SEC. 2. The appointment of a student to a position in a career-related workstudy program may be converted noncompetitively to a career or career-conditional appointment if the student: 
(a) has completed within the preceding 120 days an educational program that meets the provisions established by the Civil Service Commission; 
(b) has satisfied all course requirements leading to completion of the related curriculum at an accredited school; 
(c) is recommended for such an appointment by the employing agency in which the career-related work was performed; and, 
(d) satisfies such other requirements and conditions as the Civil Service Commission may prescribe for career or career-conditional appointment of an individual in career-related work-study programs. 
SEC. 3. The Civil Service Commission shall prescribe such regulations as it deems necessary to carry out the provisions of this order and to provide for the continuation of planning, implementation and evaluation of employment programs for students throughout the Government. These regulations shall provide for the periodic evaluation of the work of each student and require that each student's continuation in the program shall be dependent upon a finding of satisfactory performance. 
SEC. 4. Executive Order No. 11813 of October 7, 1974, is hereby revoked. 
JIMMY CARTER
The White House, 
October 26, 1977. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 3:25 p.m., October 27, 1977]