By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The greatest honor we can pay those who have given their lives in our Nation's defense is to serve the ideals for which they died. 
We properly honor these men and women on Memorial Day--as we honor those who fought and lived, to continue the struggle for peace, freedom, justice, and human rights. 
Those of us who survived the battle, or who never had to bear it, must work to assure that no American will ever be asked to offer up his or her life in war unless the survival of our Nation or of democracy itself is at stake. 
Let us remember on Memorial Day those who have lived and died in pursuit of a just peace. Let us pray that, like them, we will leave behind us a stronger Nation and a better world. 
In tribute to those Americans who have died for their country, and to those who survived to carry on their unfinished work, the Congress, by joint resolution of May 11, 1950 (64 Slat. 158), has requested the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the American people to observe each Memorial Day as a day of prayer for permanent. peace. 
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate Memorial Day, Monday, May 30, 1977, as a day of prayer for permanent peace, and I designate the hour beginning in each locality at 11 o'clock in the morning of that day as a time to unite in prayer. 
I urge the press, radio, television, and all other information media to join in this observance. 
I call upon the appropriate officials of all levels of government to fly the flag at half-staff until noon during Memorial Day on all buildings, grounds, and naval vessels throughout the United States and in all areas under its jurisdiction and control. I request the people of the United States to display the flag at half-staff from their homes for the same customary forenoon period. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and first. 
JIMMY CARTER