By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Our prosperity as a nation rests on our productivity as workers. Our happiness as individuals begins with our ability to find useful, rewarding jobs. 
That is why I feel it so important that jobs be available for all our people able to perform them--people in every region, of every religion and color, and of every age. Time and again in our history we have benefitted from the skill and dedication of our older workers. But too often prejudices and stereotypes--not limitations of ability--have kept older Americans from fulfilling their full potential at work. 
The law now recognizes our special responsibility to assure older workers an equal chance for jobs and promotions. Many private groups and organizations are now working to improve prospects for older workers. These efforts deserve our vigorous support. 
To encourage and support educational efforts designed to make employers more aware of the advantages of hiring older workers, the Congress, by joint resolution approved April 21, 1976 (90 Stat. 396), has requested the President to issue a proclamation designating the week beginning March 13, 1977, as National Employ the Older Worker Week. 
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week beginning March 13, 1977, as National Employ the Older Worker Week. I call upon State and local officials, as well as labor, business, veterans, farm, religious, scientific, professional and other groups, to join with older workers in making the American people aware of the value of employing older men and women. I urge all Americans to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies, activities and programs designed to promote employment opportunities for older workers. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 14th day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and first.
JIMMY CARTER