By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The people of the Western Hemisphere share a common past and a common future. As friends and neighbors we have an obligation to help one another, in order to promote our common good and to solve the problems of each nation, and advance our mutual interest in global solutions to problems that confront all of humankind. The organization of American States, the world's oldest regional organization, is one symbol of these shared aspirations. 
Since Pan American Day was first proclaimed in 1889, the nations of this hemisphere have undergone dramatic changes internally and in relationship to each other. The challenge for all of us in the coming year is to find ways to adapt our relationships to take into account these changes. At the same time, we should rededicate ourselves to the ideals of peace, cooperation, and social justice which continue to unite and inspire our peoples. 
It is appropriate that we set aside a special period to honor the heritage that unites us, to reaffirm our mutual desire for peace and international harmony, and to dedicate ourselves to shaping a relationship which looks to the future for inspiration. 
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Thursday, April 14, 1977, as Pan American Day, and the week beginning April 10, 1977, as Pan American Week. I call upon the Governors of the States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Mayor of the District of Columbia, and appropriate officials of all other areas subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to issue similar proclamations. 
I urge the communications media, educators, individuals, and organizations to join together during this week to celebrate our friendship and to recognize the need for a continuing commitment to peaceful and productive relationships with our neighbors in this Hemisphere as a special part of our effort to forge equitable global frameworks for relations among nations. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and first.
JIMMY CARTER