By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The blessings of liberty which our ancestors secured for us are today, as they have always been, the birthright of every American. They have remained so because in each generation there have been men and women who have been willing to suffer the hardships and sacrifices necessary to preserve our rights for future generations. 
No act of citizenship is more worthy of our respect than a willingness to serve in our armed forces and to protect and defend our ideals. There are nearly thirty million of our fellow citizens among us today who have earned that respect by their loyal and honorable service. 
In recognition of the contributions our veterans have made to the cause of peace and freedom, the Congress has determined (5 U.S.C. 6103(a)) that one day each year should be set aside as a national holiday in order that all Americans may be able to take part in activities designed to show our respect for their dedication to their country. 
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, ask all Americans to observe Monday, , October 24, 1977, as Veterans Day in a manner that will let our Nation's veterans know that their sacrifices are and always will be recognized and appreciated. 
I urge the conduct of public ceremonies, the visible tribute of members of the business community, and the personal participation of all Americans of all ages in honoring our Nation's veterans. 
I especially encourage remembrance to those men and women who are sick and disabled and to those who are patients in our hospitals. 
I call upon Federal, State and local government officials to mark Veterans Day by displaying the flag of the United States and by supporting and encouraging public involvement in appropriate exercises and programs. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and seventy-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER