PROVIDING FOR COORDINATION OF FEDERAL EQUAL EMPLOYMENT
OPPORTUNITY PROGRAMS 
By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States by the Constitution and statutes of the United States, including Section 9 of Reorganization Plan Number 1 of 1978 (43 FR 19807), it is ordered as follows: 
1-1. Implementation of Reorganization Plan. 
1-101. The transfer to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission of all the functions of the Equal Employment Opportunity Coordinating Council, and the termination of that Council, as provided by Section 6 of Reorganization Plan Number 1 of 1978 (43 FR 19807), shall be effective on July 1, 1978. 
1-2. Responsibilities of Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. 
1-201. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission shall provide leadership and coordination to the efforts of Federal departments and agencies to enforce all Federal statutes, Executive orders, regulations, and policies which require equal employment opportunity without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age or handicap. It shall strive to maximize effort, promote efficiency, and eliminate conflict, competition, duplication and inconsistency among the operations, functions and jurisdictions of the Federal departments and agencies having responsibility for enforcing such statutes, Executive orders, regulations and policies. 
1-202. In carrying out its functions under this order the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission shall consult with and utilize the special expertise of Federal departments and agencies with equal employment opportunity responsibilities. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission shall cooperate with such departments and agencies in the discharge of their equal employment responsibilities. 
1-203. All Federal departments and agencies shall cooperate with and assist the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in the performance of its functions under this order and shall furnish the Commission such reports and information as it may request. 
1-3. Specific Responsibilities. 
1-301. To implement its responsibilities under Section 1-2, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission shall, where feasible:
(a) develop uniform standards, guidelines, and policies defining the nature of employment discrimination on the ground of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age or handicap under all Federal statutes, Executive orders, regulations, and policies which require equal employment opportunity;
(b) develop uniform standards and procedures for investigations and compliance reviews to be conducted by Federal departments and agencies under any Federal statute, Executive order, regulation or policy requiring equal employment opportunity;
(c) develop procedures with the affected agencies, including the use of memoranda of understanding, to minimize duplicative investigations or compliance reviews of particular employers or classes of employers or others covered by Federal statutes, Executive orders, regulations or policies requiring equal employment opportunity;
(d) ensure that Federal departments and agencies develop their own standards and procedures for undertaking enforcement actions when compliance with equal employment opportunity requirements of any Federal statute, Executive order, regulation or policy cannot be secured by voluntary means; 
(e) develop uniform record-keeping and reporting requirements concerning employment practices to be utilized by all Federal departments and agencies having equal employment enforcement responsibilities;
(f) provide for the sharing of compliance records, findings, and supporting documentation among Federal departments and agencies responsible for ensuring equal employment opportunity;
(g) develop uniform training programs for the staff of Federal departments and agencies with equal employment opportunity responsibilities;
(h) assist all Federal departments and agencies with equal employment opportunity responsibilities in developing programs to provide appropriate publications and other information for those covered and those protected by Federal equal employment opportunity statutes, Executive orders, regulations, and policies; and
(i) initiate cooperative programs, including the development of memoranda of understanding between agencies, designed to improve the coordination of equal employment opportunity compliance and enforcement. 
1-302. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission shall assist the Civil Service Commission, or its successor, in establishing uniform job-related qualifications and requirements for job classifications and descriptions for Federal employees involved in enforcing all Federal equal employment opportunity provisions. 
1-303. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission shall issue such rules, regulations, policies, procedures or orders as it deems necessary to carry out its responsibilities under this order. It shall advise and offer to consult with the affected Federal departments and agencies during the development of any proposed rules, regulations, policies, procedures or orders and shall formally submit such proposed issuances to affected departments and agencies at least 15 working days prior to public announcement. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission shall use its best efforts to reach agreement with the agencies on matters in dispute. Departments and agencies shall comply with all final rules, regulations, policies, procedures or orders of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. 
1-304. All Federal departments and agencies shall advise and offer to consult with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission during the development of any proposed rules, regulations, policies, procedures or orders concerning equal employment opportunity. Departments and agencies shall formally submit such proposed issuances to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and other interested Federal departments and agencies at least 15 working days prior to public announcement. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission shall review such proposed rules, regulations, policies, procedures or orders to ensure consistency among the operations of the various Federal departments and agencies. Issuances related to internal management and administration are exempt from this clearance process. Case handling procedures unique to a single program also are exempt, although the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission may review such procedures in order to assure maximum consistency within the Federal equal employment opportunity program. 
1-305. Before promulgating significant rules, regulations, policies, procedures or orders involving equal employment opportunity, the Commission and affected departments and agencies shall afford the public an opportunity to comment. 
1-306. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission may make recommendations concerning staff size and resource needs of the Federal departments and agencies having equal employment opportunity responsibilities to the Office of Management and Budget. 
1-307. (a) It is the intent of this order that disputes between or among agencies concerning matters covered by this order shall be resolved through good faith efforts of the affected agencies to reach mutual agreement. Use of the dispute resolution mechanism contained in Subsections (b) and (c) of this Section should be resorted to only in extraordinary circumstances. 
(b) Whenever a dispute which cannot be resolved through good faith efforts arises between the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and another Federal department or agency concerning the issuance of an equal employment opportunity rule, regulation, policy, procedure, order or any matter covered by this Order, the Chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or the head of the affected department or agency may refer the matter to the Executive Office of the President. Such reference must be in writing and may not be made later than 15 working days following receipt of the initiating agency's notice of intent publicly to announce an equal employment opportunity rule, regulation, policy, procedure or order. If no reference is made within the 15 day period, the decision of the agency which initiated the proposed issuance will become effective. 
(c) Following reference of a disputed matter to the Executive Office of the President, the Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy (or such other officials as the President may designate) shall designate an official within the Executive Office of the President to meet with the affected agencies to resolve the dispute within a reasonable time. 
1-4. Annual Report. 
1-401. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission shall include in the annual report transmitted to the President and the Congress pursuant to Section 715 of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2000e-14), a statement of the progress that has been made in achieving the purpose of this order. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission shall provide Federal departments and agencies an opportunity to comment on the report prior to formal submission. 
1-5. General Provisions. 
1-501. Nothing in this order shall relieve or lessen the responsibilities or obligations imposed upon any person or entity by Federal equal employment law, Executive order, regulation or policy. 
1-502. Nothing in this order shall limit the Attorney General's role as legal adviser to the Executive Branch. 
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
June 30, 1978. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:23 p.m., June 30, 1978]