By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Of all known diseases in this country, cancer is probably the most feared. Recent statistics indicate that 700,000 cases of cancer will be diagnosed in the United States in 1978 and that 390,000 Americans will die of some form of the disease this year. Only through continued support of cancer research and control can we reduce these figures. 
The Federal Government, in cooperation with non-Federal organizations, is committed to finding the cause and cure of all forms of cancer and of controlling it to the extent possible while that search goes on. Since the inception of the National Cancer Program, we have learned much about the cause, detection, treatment and control of cancer. Today, cancer can often be detected earlier, making more effective treatment possible and saving many lives. Surgical, radiation and chemotherapy techniques have been improved, and research shows promise of adding immunotherapy as an additional method of treatment. Because prevention offers the best hope for ultimate control of cancer, cause and prevention research remains one of our highest priorities for we still have much to learn. 
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of April, 1978, as Cancer Control Month as requested in the joint resolution of the Congress March 28, 1938 (52 Stat. 148, 36 U.S.C. 150). I invite the Governors of the States and the appropriate officials of all other areas under the United States flag to issue similar proclamations. 
I also encourage the medical and health professions, the communications media and other interested persons and groups to take this opportunity to educate the people on this subject and to help them to take advantage of available resources to prevent needless suffering and death. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER