By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to create in accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. 1) an advisory commission on national policies for retirement, survivor, and disability programs, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
1-1. Establishment of Commission. 
1-101. There is established the President's Commission on Pension Policy. The Commission shall be composed of eleven members. 
1-102. The members of the Commission shall be appointed by the President. The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members. 
1-2. Functions of the Commission. 
1-201. The Commission shall conduct a comprehensive review of retirement, survivor, and disability programs existing in the United States, including private, Federal, State and local programs. 
1-202. The Commission shall develop national policies for retirement, survivor, and disability programs that can be used as a guide by public and private programs. Those policies must be designed to ensure that the Nation has effective and equitable retirement, survivor, and disability programs which take into account available resources and demographic changes that are expected into the middle of the next century. 
1-203. The Commission shall submit to the President a series of reports. These reports shall include the Commission's findings and recommendations on short-term and long-term issues with respect to retirement, survivor, and disability programs, including, but not restricted to, the following: 
(a) present overlaps and gaps among the private, State and local sectors in providing income to retired, surviving, and disabled persons; 
(b) the financial ability of present private, Federal, State and local retirement, survivor, and disability systems to meet their future obligations; 
(c) appropriate retirement ages, the relationship of the annuity levels to past earnings and contributions, and the role of current retirement, survivor, and disability programs in private capital formation and economic growth; 
(d) the implications of the recommended national policies for the financing and benefit structures of the retirement, survivor, and disability programs in the public and private sectors; and 
(e) specific reforms and organizational changes in the present systems that may be required to meet the goals of the national policies. 
1-204. The Commission shall submit its final report, including its recommendations and findings, to the President prior to its termination. 
1-3. Administrative Provisions and Financial Support. 
1-301. At the request of the Chairman each Executive agency that has an interest or responsibility in the areas of the Commission's functions shall designate an individual to act as liaison with the Commission and its staff. 
1-302. In performing its functions, the Commission shall seek the advice of individuals and groups interested in policies applicable to retirement, survivor, and disability programs and systems. In seeking advice from interested individuals and groups, including public and private organizations, the Commission or any committee thereof, may, among other activities, hold hearings and sit and act at such times and places as the Commission or such authorized committee may find advisable. 
1-303. The Commission may request any Executive agency to furnish such information as may be helpful for the fulfillment of the Commission's functions under this Order. Each such agency is authorized, to the extent permitted by law and within the limits of available funds, to furnish such information to the Commission. 
1-304. The Commission is authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of a staff, including not more than one position at the GS-18 level, as may be necessary to enable it to carry out its functions. The Commission may obtain services in accordance with the provisions of Section 3109 of Title 5 of the United States Code, to the extent funds are available therefore. 
1-305. Each member of the Commission who is not otherwise employed in the Government may receive, to the extent permitted by law, compensation for each day he or she is engaged upon the work of the Commission at a rate not to exceed the maximum daily rate now or hereafter prescribed by law for CS-18 of the General Schedule, and may also receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu .of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5703) for persons in the government service employed intermittently. 
1-306. The General Services Administration shall provide administrative services, facilities, and support to the Commission on a reimbursable basis. 
1-307. All necessary expenses incurred in connection with the work of the Commission shall be paid from the appropriation for "Unanticipated Needs," in the Executive Office Appropriations Act, 1978, or from such other funds as may be available. 
1-4. General Provisions. 
1-401. The functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. 1), except that of reporting annually to the Congress, which are applicable to the Commission, shall be performed by the Administrator of General Services. 
1-402. The Commission shall terminate one year after the effective date of this Order. 
1-403. This Order shall be effective on the day of the first meeting .of the Commission members.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
July 12, 1978. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:38 a.m., July 13, 1978]