By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Two great events in the history of human liberty will be commemorated in December: the ratification, on December 15. 1791, of the Bill of Rights of the Constitution of the United States, and the adoption, on December 10, 1948, of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by the United Nations General Assembly. 
The anniversary of the Bill of Rights reminds us that our Nation is a continuing experiment in human freedom. Because of the Bill of Rights, we have been able to weather 187 years of tumultuous social and technological change without losing our fundamental liberties. Indeed, those liberties have actually expanded in scope, and have grown to encompass a steadily larger proportion of our people. We can be proud of what we have achieved. But we cannot be complacent, for too many Americans are still denied a fair opportunity to enjoy the rights and rewards of our society. That is why Bill of Rights Day should be a day of rededication as well as of commemoration. 
This year, we mark the 30th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 
The Declaration is the cornerstone of a developing international consensus on human rights. It is also the authoritative statement of the meaning of the United Nations Charter, through which member nations undertake to promote, respect and observe human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, without discrimination. A long and difficult road must be travelled before the reality of human rights in the world matches the words of the Declaration. The Declaration will light that road and give strength to all who follow it. 
The Universal Declaration is the heart of a body of important United Nations human rights documents: the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, the Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and the Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. The United States signed the Genocide Convention in 1948 and the Racial Discrimination Convention in 1966. I signed the other two Covenants on October 4, 1977. I hope that the United States Senate will soon approve the Genocide Convention at last, and will undertake' early hearings to permit our Nation's adherence to the three remaining instruments. There could be no more appropriate gesture to mark the anniversary of the Universal Declaration. 
I also signed the American Convention on Human Rights on June 1, 1977. I am proud that since then, eleven nations of the Americas have ratified it, thus bringing it into force. 
The great and noble struggle to realize the rights of all men and women goes on. In the face of injustice and oppression, human beings continue to sacrifice and strive for justice and for human dignity. 
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim December 10, 1978, as Human Rights Day and December 15, 1978, as Bill of Rights Day, and call on all Americans to observe Human Rights Week beginning December 10, 1978. Let us reaffirm our dedication to the promise of this Nation for all citizens. And let us renew our efforts as members of the world community on behalf of the human rights of all people everywhere. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER