By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to create in accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I) an advisory committee on a White House Small Business Conference, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
1-1. Establishment of Commission. 
1-101. There is established a Small Business Conference Commission. The Commission shall be composed of five members. 
1-102. The members of the Commission shall be appointed by the President. The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members. 
1-2. Functions of the Commission. 
1-201. The Commission shall recommend appropriate alternate dates for holding a White House Conference on Small Business in the Fall of 1979. 
1-202. The Commission shall recommend issues to be considered by the Conference, including those relating to fostering of small business and the expansion of opportunities for entry into small business enterprises. 
1-203. The Commission shall recommend candidates for delegates to the Conference. It shall seek the majority of representatives from those engaged in small business activity, but shall also include others interested in small business concerns, such as government regulators, financiers, public interest and academic representatives. 
1-204. Prior to the White House Conference on Small Business, the Commission shall hold open regional and local meetings or conferences. These open meetings shall seek to identify the specific issues which should be addressed at the Conference and shall solicit candidates for Conference delegates. 
1-205. The Commission shall make periodic recommendations to the President and the Administrator of the Small Business Administration, and shall offer such other advice at such times as the Administrator may request. 
1-3. Administrative Provisions. 
1-301. The Commission may request any Executive agency to furnish such information as may be useful in fulfilling the Commission's functions. Each such agency is authorized, to the extent permitted by law and within the limits of available funds, to furnish such information to the Commission. 
1-302. Each member of the Commission who is not otherwise employed by the Federal Government shall receive no compensation from the United States by virtue of their service on the Commission, but all members may receive transportation and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and 5703). 
1-303. All necessary administrative staff services, support, facilities, and expenses of the Commission shall, to the extent permitted by law, be furnished by the Small Business Administration. 
1-4. General Provisions. 
1-401. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting annually to the Congress, which are applicable to the Commission shall be performed by the Administrator of the Small Business Administration in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
1-402. The Commission shall terminate on December 31, 1979, or 60 days after the conclusion of the White House Conference on Small Business, whichever is sooner. 
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
May 18, 1978.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:02 a.m., May 19, 1978]