By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to provide for coordinated and effective Federal programs to improve productivity in the public and private sectors, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
1-1. Establishment of the Council. 
1-101. There is established the National Productivity Council. 
1-102. The Council will be composed of the heads of the following agencies, or a designated representative, and such others as the President may designate: 
(a) Department of the Treasury. 
(b) Department of Commerce. 
(c) Department of Labor. 
(d) Office of the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations. 
(e)Council of Economic Advisers. 
(f) Office of Management and Budget. 
(g) Office of Science and Technology Policy. 
(h) Council on Environmental Quality. 
(i) Civil Service Commission, and 
(j) Council on Wage and Price Stability 
1-103. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget will serve as Chairman of the Council. 
1-2. Functions of the Council. 
1-201. The Council will work with Executive agencies to assure that activities designed to improve productivity in the private and public sectors are carried out in a manner that realizes maximum benefit from the resources invested. As part of this responsibility the Council will identify opportunities for cooperative or innovative projects to be undertaken by the agencies, as well as overlapping or duplicative programs which should be eliminated. 
1-202. The Council will identify issues pertaining to private and public sector productivity and productivity improvement, and will make assignments to Council members or other Executive agencies for studying and resolving the issues. 
1-203. The Council will identify major policy issues with productivity implications for consideration by the President, including the need for legislative initiatives. 
1-204. The Council will serve as the focal point within the Executive Branch for liaison with elements of the private sector concerned with improving productivity, and will seek the advice and assistance of business, labor, and academic leaders, as well as representatives from State and local governments and others concerned with productivity. 
1-205. The Council will serve as the focal point within the Executive Branch for liaison with organizations of foreign governments involved in efforts to improve productivity. 
1-3. Administrative Provisions. 
1-301. Executive agencies shall cooperate with and assist the Council in performing its functions. 
1-302. The Chairman shall be responsible for providing the Council with such administrative services and support as may be necessary or appropriate. 
1-303. The Chairman may establish working groups or subcommittees of the Council. The Chairman may invite representatives of nonmember agencies to participate from time to time in the functions of the Council. 
1-304. The Chairman shall report to the President on the performance of the Council's functions.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
October 23, 1978. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 2:45 p.m., October 23, 1978]