ESTABLISHING A NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR WOMEN 
By virtue of my authority as President of the United States of America, and in order to promote equality for women in the cultural, social, economic and political life of this Nation, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. Establishment of a National Advisory Committee for Women. There is established a National Advisory Committee for Women (hereafter the Committee). 
SEC. 2. Membership. The President shall appoint not more than thirty individuals to serve on the Committee and shall designate one member to chair the Committee. 
SEC. 3. Responsibilities of the Committee. (a) The Committee shall advise the President on a regular basis of initiatives needed to promote full equality for American women. 
(b) The Committee shall assist in reviewing the applicability of such initiatives, including recommendations of the 1977 National Women's Conference, to particular programs and policies. 
(c) The Committee shall promote the national observance of the United Nations Decade for Women, Equality, Development and Peace (1975-1985). 
(d) The Committee shall gather and disseminate information relating to its responsibilities. 
(e) The Committee shall consult regularly with the Interdepartmental Task Force established in Section 6. 
SEC. 4. Committee Procedures. (a) The Committee may establish, within the limits of available funds, such working groups as may be necessary to fulfill its tasks. The membership of such groups may include persons not members of the Committee. 
(b) The Committee shall establish such procedural regulations as are necessary to carry out its responsibilities. 
(c) The Committee shall conclude its work by March 1, 1980, and shall make a final report to the President. 
SEC. 5. Assistance and Cooperation. The Committee may request any agency of the Executive Branch of the government to furnish it with such information, advice, funds and services as may be useful for the fulfillment of the Committee's functions under this Order. Such agencies are authorized, to the extent permitted by law, to honor the Committee's requests. 
SEC. 6. Interdepartmental Task Force. The head of each agency within the Executive Branch shall designate persons responsible for reviewing the applicability of initiatives designed to promote full equality for American women, including recommendations of the 1977 National Women's Conference, to the agency's programs and policies. Persons so designated shall constitute the Interdepartmental Task Force, which shall consult regularly with the Committee. The President shall designate a person to chair the Task Force. 
SEC. 7. Federal Advisory Committee Act Functions. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I) which are applicable to the Committee, except that of reporting annually to the Congress, shall be performed by the Secretary of Labor in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
SEC. 8. Revocations. Executive Order No. 11126, as amended, and Executive Order No. 11832, as amended, are revoked. 
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
April 4, 1978. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:59 a.m., April 5, 1978]