By virtue of the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, and in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I), it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. Establishment. (a) There is hereby established the President's Commission on Foreign Language and International Studies, hereinafter referred to as the Commission. 
(b) The Commission shall consist of not more than twenty-five members to be appointed by the President, one of whom shall be designated by the President to chair the Commission. 
SEC. 2. Functions. (a) The Commission shall conduct such public hearings, inquiries, and studies as may be necessary to make recommendations to the President and the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare in accordance with the objectives of the Commission outlined in subsection (b) of this Section. 
(b) The objectives of the Commission shall be to: 
(1) Recommend means for directing public attention to the importance of foreign language and international studies for the improvement of communications and understanding with other nations in an increasingly interdependent world; 
(2) Assess the need in the United States for foreign language and area specialists, ways in which foreign language and international studies contribute to meeting these needs, and the job market for individuals with these skills. 
(3) Recommend what foreign language area studies programs are appropriate at all academic levels and recommend desirable levels and kinds of support for each that should be provided by the public and private sectors. 
(4) Review existing legislative authorities and make recommendations for changes needed to carry out most effectively the Commission's recommendations. 
SEC. 3. Administration. (a) To the extent authorized by law: 
(1) All necessary expenses incurred in connection with the work of the Commission shall be paid from funds available to the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. 
(2) The Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare may provide, or otherwise obtain, appropriate professional, technical, clerical and administrative personnel as may be necessary to enable the Commission to perform its functions. 
(3) Executive agencies shall assist or otherwise cooperate with the Commission in the performance of its functions. 
(4) Each member of the Commission who is not otherwise employed in the Government may receive compensation at the rate of $100.00 per day for each day such member is engaged in the work of the Commission, and may also receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence (5 U.S.C. 5702 and 5703). 
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting annually to the Congress, which are applicable to the Commission, shall be performed by the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare in accordance with guidelines and procedures prescribed by the Administrator of General Services. 
SEC. 4. Termination and Final Report. The Commission shall submit its final report to the President not later than six months after its first meeting and shall terminate thirty days thereafter. 
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
April 21, 1978. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:19 p.m., April 21, 1978]