By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to provide for the coordination of Federal energy policies, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
1-1. Establishment of the Committee. 
1-101. There is established an Energy Coordinating Committee, hereinafter referred to as the Committee. 
1-102. The Committee shall be composed of the following, and such other members as the President may, from time to time, designate. 
(a) The Secretary of Energy, who shall be the Chairman. 
(b) The Secretary of State. 
(c) The Secretary of the Treasury. 
(d) The Secretary of Defense. 
(e) The Attorney General. 
(f) The Secretary of the Interior. 
(g) The Secretary of Agriculture. 
(h) The Secretary of Commerce. 
(i) The Secretary of Labor. 
(j) The Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare. 
(k) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. 
(1) The Secretary of Transportation. 
(m) The Special Representative for Trade Negotiations. 
(n) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget. 
(o) The Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers. 
(p) The Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality. 
(q) The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. 
(r) The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy. 
(s) The Administrator of General Services. 
(t) The Director of the National Science Foundation. 
(u) The Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs. 
(v) The Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy. 
(w) The Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, who is invited to be a member. 
1-2. Functions of the Committee. 
1-201. The Committee shall ensure that there is communication and coordination among Executive agencies concerning energy policy and the management of energy resources. 
1-202. The Committee shall, from time to time, develop and consider recommendations for improvements in the implementation of Federal energy policies or the management of energy resources that involve two or more Executive agencies. 
1-203. The functions of the Committee shall neither substitute for nor replace Executive Office of the President clearance, review, and decision-making procedures. Those procedures shall also be used for submitting to the President any of the conclusions or recommendations developed through the Committee's energy coordinating functions. 
1-204. The Committee shall meet at the call of the Chairman. 
1-3. Executive Council. 
1-301. During periods when the Committee is not meeting, the functions of the Committee are delegated to an Executive Council. Meetings may be called by any regular member of the Council. 
1-302. The Executive Council shall be composed of the following, and such others as may be appropriate due to the specific matters to be considered. 
(a) The Chairman of the Committee, who shall be Chairman of the Executive Council. 
(b) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget. 
(c) The Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers. 
(d) The Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs. 
(e) The Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy. 
1-4. Revocation of a Prior Order. 
Executive Order No. 11814, as amended, which provided for an Energy Resources Council, is revoked.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
September 27, 1978. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 2: 36 p.m., September 27, 1978]