By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, and in order to provide for timely coordinated Federal decisions on critical energy facility permit applications, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
1-101. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall establish a Critical Energy Facility Program. 
1-102. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget, after consulting with the Executive agencies listed in Section 1-103, shall make recommendations to the President as to which nonnuclear facilities should be included in the Program. The President shall identify non-nuclear energy facilities which he deems to be of critical national importance and which need Federal permits for siting, construction, or operation. Those facilities shall be included in the Program. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall establish a system through which deadlines will be established for final administrative decision-making by Executive agencies, consistent with statutory requirements. 
1-103. The following Executive agencies shall participate in the Program and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget may invite others to participate where appropriate:
(a) Department of the Interior.
(b) Department of Agriculture.
(c) Department of Commerce.
(d) Department of Transportation.
(e) Department of Energy.
(f) Environmental Protection Agency.
(g) Council on Environmental Quality.
(h) Department of the Army. 
1-104. Each Executive agency in the Program shall submit such data and information as the Director of the Office of Management and Budget may require with respect to a critical energy facility, including: 
(a) Date a completed application is expected to be received from the sponsors of a critical energy facility project. 
(b) Targeted final decision date for each significant permit or statutory review. 
(c) Compilation of the actions required of other Executive agencies before a participating Executive agency may make a final decision. 
(d) Compilation of the actions required of non-Federal authorities before a participating Executive agency may make a final decision. 
(e) Compilation of significant actions required of the applicant before a final decision may be made. 
(f) Progress reports, including reasons for any changes in any targeted final decision dates. 
1—105. On the basis of information received pursuant to Section 1-104, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget will provide to the President, to the participating Executive agencies, to the Governor of any affected State, and to the applicant a schedule of deadlines for Federal actions concerning each critical energy facility. 
1-106. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall provide for appropriate interagency mechanisms for the conduct of multiple agency reviews; but, only where such reviews are consistent with the statutory obligations of the agencies, and only when such reviews will assist in the expeditious processing of facility permits. 
1-107. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall assist participating Executive agencies with the establishment of joint Federal and State and local agency reviews. Such assistance shall be limited to those circumstances which are consistent with the legal obligations of the reviewing Federal and State and local agencies, and which will result in the expeditious processing of facility permits. 
1-108. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall keep the President informed on agency performance in meeting scheduled decision deadlines. 
1-109. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall, where appropriate, coordinate the procedures established herein with those procedures adopted by the Council on Environmental Quality pursuant to Executive Order No. 11991 (40 CFR Parts 1500-1508). 
1-110. Nothing in this Order is intended to modify in any way (a) the review and decision-making responsibilities imposed by Federal or State statutes, or (b) the opportunity for timely State and local government and public participation in agency decision-making.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
April 5, 1979.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:21 a.m., April 6, 1979]