By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, in accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I), and in order to improve the management effectiveness of Executive agencies, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
1-1. Establishment of the Council. 
1-101. There is hereby established the President's Management Improvement Council. 
1-102. The Council shall be Co-chaired by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and the Director of the Office of Personnel Management. The Council's membership shall consist of representatives from Executive agencies and from the non-Federal sector; such as business, industry, organized labor, foundations, universities, and State and local governments. The members shall be appointed by the President. 
1-2. Functions of the Council. 
1-201. The Council shall advise the President on significant and critical management problems and issues affecting Executive agencies and Government programs. 
1-202. The Council shall work cooperatively with the Comptroller General, senior program management and administrative officials, and Inspectors General to provide advice and guidance on specific management improvement projects involving one or more Executive agencies. 
1-203. Where feasible, the Council shall advise the Executive agencies in the development of management systems or management techniques to improve the effectiveness and responsiveness of Federal programs. 
1-204. The Council shall advise the Executive agencies of solutions to critical management problems, as well as the constraints on management effectiveness. 
1-205. In developing its recommendations, the Council shall utilize the experience of the public and private sectors. The Council shall also identify and facilitate the application to Federal programs of appropriate successful systems and techniques which have been used elsewhere in public and private sectors. 
1-206. The Cochairman shall report to the President on the performance of the Council's functions. 
1-3. Administrative Provisions. 
1-301. The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Council with administrative and staff services, support and facilities as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions. 
1-302. Each member of the Council, who is not otherwise a full-time employee of the Federal Government, shall receive no compensation from the United States by virtue of their service on the Council, but all members may receive the transportation and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and 5703). 
1-4. General Provisions. 
1-401. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting annually to the Congress, shall be performed by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management in accordance with guidelines and procedures established 'by the Administrator of General Services. 
1-402. The Council shall terminate on December 31, 1980, unless sooner extended. 
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
September 14, 1979. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 3:15 p.m., September 14, 1979]