By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, and in order to amend the responsibilities of the President's Commission on Personnel Interchange and to continue its work of enriching both the Government and the private sectors by enabling the most promising executive to work in the other sector, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
I-1. Establishment of the Commission. 
1-101. The President's Commission on Personnel Interchange is continued and renamed the President's Commission on Executive Exchange. 
1-102. The Commission shall be composed of such officials in the Executive agencies and such persons from the private sector as the President may from time to time appoint. The Chairman shall be designated by the President. The members of the commission and the Chairman shall serve two-year terms at the pleasure of the President. 
1-103. Members of the Commission who are officers or employees of the Federal Government shall receive no additional compensation by reason of this Order, and members who are not such officers or employees shall serve without compensation, but shall be provided with travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law.
1-2. Functions of the Commission. 
1-201. The Commission shall develop an Executive Exchange Program in which promising executives from the Executive agencies, and from the private sector, who have demonstrated the ability to rise to high management positions, will be selected as Exchange Executives and placed in positions in the other sector which offer significant challenge, responsibility, and regular and continuing contact with senior officials. 
1-202. The Commission shall develop an education program which places the work experience of the Exchange Executive in the broader context of both the Federal Government and the private sector. 
1-203. The Commission shall supervise and review the operation of the Program, and recommend to the President ways to promote and improve the exchange between the Government and the private sector. 
1-204. The Commission shall ensure that the Program operates in compliance with the merit principles set forth in Section 2301 of Title 5 of the United States Code. 
1-3. Responsibilities of Executive Agencies. 
1-301. Each Executive agency shall, to the extent permitted by law, cooperate with the Commission and furnish it with such assistance as the Chairman may request in connection with the Program. 
1-302. The head of each Executive agency shall designate a presidential appointee who is not a member of the Commission to serve as liaison to the Commission. 
1—4. Administrative Provisions. 
1-401. The Office of Personnel Management shall provide the Commission with administrative services, staff support, and travel expenses, as authorized by law. 
1-402. Executive Order No. 11451 of January 19, 1969, is superseded.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House, May 15, 1979.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 3:02 p.m., May 15, 1979]