By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and by the Statutes of the United States of America, including the Federal Advisory Committee Act, 5 U.S.C. App. I, and 3 U.S.C. 301, in order to establish an independent forum to recommend for this Nation an Agenda for the Eighties and to recommend approaches for dealing with the major issues which will confront the American people during that decade, it is ordered: 
1-1. Establishment and Structure 
1-101. There is hereby established the President's Commission for a National Agenda for the Eighties. 
1-102. The Commission shall be composed initially of fifty members appointed by the President from among private citizens of the United States. Upon the request of the Commission, the President shall select and appoint no more than fifty additional members. 
1-103. The President shall designate the Chairperson of the Commission. The Chairperson, following consultations with Commission members, shall designate no more than fifteen members of the Commission to constitute an Executive Committee. 
1-104. The members of the Commission shall not receive compensation for their service on the Commission, but may receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence. 
1-2. Functions and Reports 
1-201. Under the direction of the Executive Committee, the Commission shall identify and examine the most critical public policy challenges of the 1980's. It shall examine issues related to the capacity for effective Federal governance, the role of private institutions in meeting public needs, and underlying social and economic trends, as these issues bear on our public policy challenges in the 1980's. Areas to be reviewed by the Commission shall include: 
(a) underlying trends or developments within our society, such as the changing structure of our economy, the persistence of inflationary forces, demands on our natural environment, and demographic shifts within our population that will shape public choices in the 1980's; 
(b) opportunities to enhance social justice and economic well-being for all our people in the 1980's; 
(c) the role of private institutions, including the non-profit and voluntary sectors, in meeting basic human needs and aspirations in the future; 
(d) defining the role of the public sector, and financing its responsibilities in the 1980's; 
(e) impediments to building policy consensus, both within government—the Executive branch, Congress, State and local government—and within the Nation as a whole. 
Within this framework, the Commission shall identify the specific issues appropriate for examination. 
1-202. The Chairperson of the Commission shall organize the Commission to study and make recommendations on major subject matter areas. This shall include the authority to appoint study panels and their chairpersons. 
1-203. The Executive Committee shall coordinate the work and act on behalf of the Commission as necessary. 
1-204. The Commission shall make every feasible effort to ensure citizen participation in the development of its Agenda and recommendations. The Commission, in preparing its recommendations, shall also consult with the Congress and with State and local officials. 
1-205. The Commission shall prepare a final report .setting forth its recommendations for addressing its Agenda for the Eighties and shall present the report to the President and to the Congress by December 31, 1980. 
1-206. The Commission shall terminate on February 15, 1981. 
1-3. Staff and Support 
1-301. The Chairperson of the Commission shall appoint an Executive Director of the Commission. 
1-302. To the extent permitted by law, Executive Agencies shall provide funds, facilities, support, services and assistance for the Commission and its subgroups, and such information and advice as the Commission may request. 
1-303. Notwithstanding Executive Order 12024, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting annually to Congress, shall be performed by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget with regard to the Commission and its subgroups. The Director is authorized to further delegate these responsibilities. 
JIMMY CARTER
The White House, 
October 24, 1979. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:08 p.m., October 24, 1979]