By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to provide, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. 1 ), an independent forum to investigate and explain the recent accident at the nuclear power facility at Three Mile Island in Pennsylvania, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
1-1. Establishment. 
1-101. There is established the President's Commission on the Accident at Three Mile Island. 
1-102. The membership of the Commission shall be composed of not more than twelve persons appointed by the President from among citizens who are not full time officers or employees within the Executive Branch. The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the Commission. 
1-2. Functions. 
1-201. The Commission shall conduct a comprehensive study and investigation of the recent accident involving the nuclear power facility on Three Mile Island in Pennsylvania. The study and investigation shall include: 
(a) a technical assessment of the events and their causes; 
(b) an analysis of the role of the managing utility; 
(c) an assessment of the emergency preparedness and response of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and other Federal, state and local authorities; 
(d) an evaluation of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's licensing, inspection, operation and enforcement procedures as applied to this facility; 
(e) an assessment of how the public's right to information concerning the events at Three Mile Island was served and of the steps which should be taken during similar emergencies to provide the public with accurate, comprehensible and timely information; and 
(f) appropriate recommendations based upon the Commission's findings. 
1-202. The Commission shall prepare and transmit to the President and to the Secretaries of Energy and Health, Education and Welfare a final report of its findings and recommendations. 
1-3. Administration. 
1-301. The Chairman of the Commission is authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of a staff of such persons as may be necessary to discharge the Commission's responsibilities, subject to the applicable provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act and Title 5 of the United States Code. 
1-302. To the extent authorized by law and requested by the Chairman of the Commission, the General Services Administration shall provide the Commission with necessary administrative services, facilities, and support on a reimbursable basis. 
1-303. The Department of Energy and the Department of Health, Education and Welfare shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide the Commission with such facilities, support, funds and services, including staff, as may be necessary for the effective performance of the Commission's functions. 
1-304. The Commission may request any Executive agency to furnish such information, advice or assistance as it deems necessary to carry out its functions. Each such agency is directed, to the extent permitted by law, to furnish such information, advice or assistance upon request by the Chairman of the Commission. 
1-305. Each member of the Commission may receive compensation at the maximum rate now or hereafter prescribed by law for each day such member is engaged in the work of the Commission. Each member may also receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence (5 U.S.C. 5702 and 5703). 
1-306. The functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act which are applicable to the Commission, except that of reporting annually to the Congress, shall be performed by the Administrator of General Services. 
1-4. Final Report and Termination. 
1-401. The final report required by Section 1-202 of this Order shall be transmitted not later than six months from the date of the Commission's first meeting. 
1-402. The Commission shall terminate two months after the transmittal of its final report.
.JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
April 11, 1979.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:46 a.m., April 12, 1979]