By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, and in order to expand the membership of the President's Export Council, in accord with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I), it is hereby ordered as follows: 
1-1. Establishment and Membership. 
1-101. There is established the President's Export Council. 
1-102. The membership of the Council shall be as follows: 
(a) The heads of the following Executive agencies or their representatives: 
(1) Department of State.
(2) Department of the Treasury.
(3) Department of Agriculture.
(4) Department of Commerce.
(5) Department of Labor.
(6) Office of the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations.
(7) Export-Import Bank of the United States. 
(b) Three members of the United States Senate, designated by the President of the Senate, and three members of the United States House of Representatives designated by the Speaker of the House. 
(c) Not to exceed 28 citizens appointed by the President. These individuals shall be selected from those who are not fulltime Federal officers or employees. They shall include representatives of business and industry, agriculture, and labor. 
1-103. The President shall designate a Chairman and a Vice Chairman from among the members appointed by the President. 
1-104. The Secretary of Commerce, with the concurrence of the Chairman, shall appoint an Executive Director. 
1-2. Functions. 
1-201. The Council shall serve as a national advisory body on matters relating to United States export trade, including advice on the implementation of the President's National Export Policy, which was announced on September 26, 1978. It shall, through the Secretary of Commerce, report to the President on its activities and on its recommendations for expanding United States exports. 
1-202. The Council should survey and evaluate the export expansion activities of the communities represented by the membership. It should identify and examine specific problems which business, industrial, and agricultural practices may cause for export trade, and examine the needs of business, industry, and agriculture to expand their efforts. The Council should recommend specific solutions to these problems and needs. 
1-203. The Council may act as liaison among the communities represented by the membership; and, may provide a forum for those communities on current and emerging problems and issues in the field of export expansion. The Council should encourage the business, industrial, and agricultural communities to enter new foreign markets and to expand existing export programs. 
1-204. The Council shall provide advice on Federal plans and actions that affect export expansion policies which have an impact on those communities represented by the membership. 
1-205. The Council may establish, with the concurrence of the Secretary of Commerce, an executive committee and such other subordinate committees it considers necessary for the performance of its functions. The Chairman of a subordinate committee shall be designated, with the concurrence of the Secretary of Commerce, by the Chairman of the Council from among the membership of the Council. Members of subordinate committees shall be appointed by the Secretary of Commerce. 
1-3. Administrative Provisions. 
• 1-301. The Secretary of Commerce shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Council, including its executive and subordinate committees, with administrative and staff services, support and facilities as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions. 
1-302. Each member of the Council, including its executive and subordinate committees, who is not otherwise paid a salary by the Federal Government, shall receive no compensation from the United States by virtue of their service on the Council, but all members may receive the transportation and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and 5703). 
1-4. General Provisions. 
1-401. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.G. App. I), except that of reporting annually to the Congress, which are applicable to the Council, shall be performed by the Secretary of Commerce in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
1-402. Executive Order No. 11753 is revoked; however, nothing in this Order shall be deemed to require new charters for the Council, including its executive and subordinate committees, which were current immediately prior to the issuance of this Order. 
1-403. The Council shall terminate on December 31, 1980, unless sooner extended.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
May 4, 1979.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register 5:03 p.m., May 4, 1979]