By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, and in order to review and recommend ways to improve United States-Liberian relations, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
1-1. Establishment. 
1-101. There is established the President's Commission on United States-Liberian Relations. 
1-102. (a) The membership of the Commission shall be composed of not more than sixteen persons, as follows. Twelve shall be appointed by the President. The President of the United States Senate and the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives are each invited to designate two members. 
(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the Commission. 
1-2. Functions. 
1-201. The Commission shall conduct a comprehensive review of our relations with Liberia and will provide recommendations to improve this relationship. In particular, the Commission shall: 
(a) Make an overall assessment of United States-Liberian relations.
(b) Identify problem areas and constraints to a better functioning relationship.
(c) Develop appropriate recommendations based on the Commission's findings.
1-202. The Commission shall prepare and transmit to the President of the United States and to the Secretary of State, a final report of its findings and recommendations. 
1-3. Administration. 
1-301. Members of the Commission who are not otherwise full-time officers or employees of the Federal government shall receive no compensation for their work on the Commission. All members shall be entitled to travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law. 
1-302. The Department of State shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide the Commission with such funds, facilities, support and services as may be necessary for the performance of the Commission's functions. 
1-4. Final Report and Termination. 
1-401. The final report required by Section 1-202 of this Order shall be transmitted not later than two months from the date of the Commission's visit to Liberia. 
1-402. The Commission shall terminate upon the transmittal of its final report, but in any event not later than six months from the date this Order is issued. 
JIMMY CARTER
The White House, 
February 22, 1980. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:06 a.m., February 25, 1980]