By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, and in order to create in accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I) an advisory committee on United States participation in the International Labor Organization, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
1-1. Establishment of Committee. 
1-101. There is established the President's Committee on the International Labor Organization (ILO). The members will be the Secretaries of Labor, State, and Commerce, the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, and the Presidents of the AFL-CIO and the United States Council of the International Chamber of Commerce, or their designated representatives. 
1-102. The Chairman of the Committee shall be the Secretary of Labor. The Committee shall meet at the request of the Chairman. 
1-2. Functions of the Committee. 
1-201. The Committee shall monitor and assess the work of the ILO. 
1-202. The Committee shall make recommendations to the President or other officers of the Federal government, including the Secretary of Labor. With due recognition that in the ILO tripartite system, government, employer, and employee representatives retain the right to take positions independent of one another, the Committee shall exert its best efforts to develop a coordinated position as to United States policy on ILO issues. 
1-203. The Committee shall also perform other functions relevant to relations with the ILO as requested by the President or the Committee Chairman. 
1-3. Funding and Expenses. 
1-301. Each member of the Committee who is not otherwise employed full-time by the Federal government may receive, to the extent permitted by law, compensation for each day he is engaged in the work of the Committee at a rate not to exceed the maximum daily rate now or hereafter prescribed by law, and may also receive transportation and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and 5703). 
1-302. The Chairman of the Committee is authorized to establish such additional advisory committees as may be deemed appropriate to carry out the purposes of this Order. 
1-303. All necessary administrative staff services, support, facilities and expenses of the Committee shall be furnished by the Department of Labor to the extent permitted by law. 
1-4. General Provisions. 
1-401. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President applicable to the Committee under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting annually to the Congress, are hereby delegated to the Secretary of Labor, who shall perform them in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
1-402. The Committee shall terminate on December 31, 1980, unless this date is extended by further Executive order. 
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
June 18, 1980.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 3:15 p.m., June 18, 1980]