By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Throughout the history of the United States, our progress as a Nation has been closely tied to our progress in transportation. 
As the Nation grew, so did its need for mobility. In the last century, this need was well served by expanding networks of railroads and canals. Today, the need is served by a broader range of systems, including motor vehicles and aircraft. 
The generations of men and women who pioneered these systems stand high in the ranks of those who made America great. 
But new demands are constantly being made on our capacity to move people and the goods they produce. Today's systems must change if they are to handle the demographic changes and the energy problems of tomorrow. 
Once again we look to the people in our transportation industry to innovate?and to provide rapid, dependable, safe and efficient transportation to meet the needs of the future. 
Acknowledging the importance of the U.S. transportation system, the Congress by joint resolution of May 16, 1957 (71 Stat. 30, 36 U.S.C. 160), requested the President to proclaim the third Friday in May of each year as National Defense Transportation Day, and, by joint resolution of May 14, 1962 (76 Stat. 69, 36 U.S.C. 166), requested the President to proclaim the week on which that Friday falls as National Transportation Week. 
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate Friday, May 16, 1980, as National Defense Transportation Day, and the week beginning May 11, 1980, as National Transportation Week. 
I urge all Governors, appropriate Federal officials, transportation organizations, and the people of the United States to join with the U.S. Department of Transportation in observing this day and week in honor of the vital role that the commercial transportation industry plays in our daily lives, in national defense, and in the future of an energy-secure America. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day of March in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER