By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
I find that continued implementation of the Emergency Building Temperature Restrictions, Energy Conservation Contingency Plan No. 2, is required in the national interest. This Plan was transmitted by me to the Congress on March 1, 1979, and approved by resolution of each House of Congress in the manner provided by law. 
This Conservation Plan was implemented by me nine months ago because it was clear in view of unstable world production of crude oil that we could not rely on imports to meet our normal demand. Worldwide production of crude oil now is at levels even below those of the comparable period last year. We have had to terminate crude oil imports from Iran, and have experienced increased uncertainty about the level of continued crude oil supplies from other producing countries. Because of the actions of the Soviet Union in Afghanistan and the tensions between Iraq and Iran, the threat to the stability of commerce in the countries of the oil-producing Persian Gulf has increased. 
This shortage of reliable supply has resulted in continued high U.S. dependence on insecure crude oil imports, which have experienced rapid price increases, substantially increasing our inflation rate and creating a major adverse impact on the national economy. These effects are likely to be of significant scope and duration, and may be exacerbated by additional shortages which, should they occur, are likely to be of an emergency nature resulting from interruption of the supply of foreign petroleum. 
The risk to the Nation from this reliance on insecure oil imports has not diminished since the Plan was implemented nine months ago. Under applicable law the finding that a shortage of energy supply requires implementation of the Plan must be considered anew nine months after it was made. I therefore renew the finding and determination contained in Proclamation No. 4667 of July 10, 1979 under sections 201 (b) and 3(8) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6261(b), 6202(8)).
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, including section 201(b) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6261(b)), do hereby proclaim that: 
Sec. 1-101. The finding and determination under sections 3(8) and 201(b) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6202(8), 6261 (b)) contained in Proclamation No. 4667 of July 10, 1979 are hereby renewed. 
Sec. 1-102. This Proclamation shall be immediately transmitted to the Congress. 
Sec. 1-103. The provisions of the Emergency Building Temperature Restrictions, Energy Conservation Contingency Plan No. 2 (44 FR 12911 of March 8, 1979) and the regulations thereunder, or any amendments thereto, shall continue in effect until January 16, 1981, unless earlier rescinded. 
Sec. 1-104. In accordance with the provisions of this Plan and the regulations thereunder, the Secretary of Energy is hereby authorized to continue the administration of the program in all respects. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred eighty, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER