By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
From the beaches of Hawaii to the hills of New England, America's public recreation and park systems include outstanding features of our historical, cultural and natural heritage. 
Magnificent canyons, splendid forests, the homes of great Americans?these are among the places preserved in Federal, State and local park systems. Recreation areas make everything from scuba diving to spelunking to plain old picnicking available to millions. 
Among the Federal government's diverse holdings are national forests, grasslands, wildlife refuges, even the famous Gateway Arch in St. Louis. State park systems have similar treasures. Oregon's coast is dotted with State-run beaches that offer agate-hunting and surf-fishing, while New York's Adirondack Park?three times the size of Yellowstone and the country's largest State park?boasts more than 9,000 square miles of wilderness within a day's drive of 55 million Americans. 
The preservation of wilderness is one goal of the country's park systems. Accessibility is another. Parks and recreation areas all over the country offer a variety of programs, experiences and opportunities to all Americans, including the disabled, the disadvantaged, the elderly and the very young. 
It is important that everyone be able to enjoy our landscape and history and to engage in healthy leisure activities-whether it's boating or fishing, walking or climbing. But to work well, to work for all of us and all our needs, the park systems need our help?our suggestions, our thoughts, our cooperation?especially in this time of energy conservation. These are contributions we can all make, this week and every week. 
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim June 1-7, 1980, as National Recreation and Parks Week. I call on all Americans to observe this occasion by giving serious thought to the ways they can better use and preserve the parks of this country. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day of May in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER