By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Section 3 of the Military Selective Service Act, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 453), provides that male citizens of the United States and other male persons residing in the United States who are between the ages of 18 and 26, except those exempted by Sections 3 and 6(a) of the Military Selective Service Act, must present themselves for registration at such time or times and place or places, and in such manner as determined by the President. Section 6(k) provides that such exceptions shall not continue after the cause for the exemption ceases to exist. 
The Congress of the United States has made available the funds (H.J. Res. 521, approved by me on June 27, 1980), which are needed to initiate this registration, beginning with those born on or after January 1, 1960.
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, by the authority vested in me by the Military Selective Service Act, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 451 et seq.), do hereby proclaim as follows: 
1-1. Persons to be Registered and Days of Registration. 
1-101. Male citizens of the United States and other males residing in the United States, unless exempted by the Military Selective Service Act, as amended, who were born on or after January 1, 1960, and who have attained their eighteenth birthday, shall present themselves for registration in the manner and at the time and places as hereinafter provided. 
1-102. Persons born in calendar year 1960 shall present themselves for registration on any of the six days beginning Monday, July 21, 1980. 
1-103. Persons born in calendar year 1961 shall present themselves for registration on any of the six days beginning Monday, July 28, 1980. 
1-104. Persons born in calendar year 1962 shall present themselves for registration on any of the six days beginning Monday, January 5, 1981. 
1-105. Persons born on or after January 1, 1963, shall present themselves for registration on the day they attain the 18th anniversary of their birth or on any day within the period of 60 days beginning 30 days before such date; however, in no event shall such persons present themselves for registration prior to January 5, 1981. 
1-106. Aliens who would be required to present themselves for registration pursuant to Sections 1-101 to 1-105, but who are in processing centers on the dates fixed for registration, shall present themselves for registration within 30 days after their release from such centers. 
1-107. Aliens and noncitizen nationals of the United States who reside in the United States, but who are absent from the United States on the days fixed for their registration, shall present themselves for registration within 30 days after their return to the United States. 
1-108. Aliens and noncitizen nationals of the United States who, on or after July 1, 1980, come into and reside in the United States shall present themselves for registration in accordance with Sections 1-101 to 1-105 or within 30 days after coming into the United States, whichever is later. 
1-109. Persons who would have been required to present themselves for registration pursuant to Sections 1-101 to 1-108 but for an exemption pursuant to Section 3 or 6(a) of the Military Selective Service Act, as amended, or but for some condition beyond their control such as hospitalization or incarceration, shall present themselves for registration within 30 days after the cause for their exempt status ceases to exist or within 30 days after the termination of the condition which was beyond their control. 
1-2. Places and Times for Registration. 
1-201. Persons who are required to be registered and who are in the United States on any day fixed herein for their registration, shall present themselves for registration before a duly designated employee in any classified United States Post Office. 
1-202. Citizens of the United States who are required to be registered and who are not in the United States on any of the days set aside for their registration, shall present themselves at a United States Embassy or Consulate for registration before a diplomatic or consular officer of the United States or before a registrar duly appointed by a diplomatic or consular officer of the United States. 
1-203. The hours for registration in United States Post Offices shall be the business hours during the days of operation of the particular United States Post Office. The hours for registration in United States Embassies and Consulates shall be those prescribed by the United States Embassies and Consulates. 
1-3. Manner of Registration. 
1-301. Persons who are required to be registered shall comply with the registration procedures and other rules and regulations prescribed by the Director of Selective Service. 
1-302. When reporting for registration each person shall present for inspection reasonable evidence of his identity. After registration, each person shall keep the Selective Service System informed of his current address. 
Having proclaimed these requirements for registration, I urge everyone, including employers in the private and public sectors, to cooperate with and assist those persons who are required to be registered in order to ensure a timely and complete registration. Also, I direct the heads of Executive agencies, when requested by the Director of Selective Service and to the extent permitted by law, to cooperate and assist in carrying out the purposes of this Proclamation. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this second day of July in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER