By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The willingness of our citizens to give freely and unselfishly of themselves, even their lives, in defense of our democratic principles, gives this great Nation continued strength and vitality. From Valley Forge to Vietnam, through war and peace, valiant Americans have answered the call to duty with honor and dignity. 
Americans throughout this great land set aside Veterans Day for special remembrance of the men and women who have served to protect our freedom. The sound of bugles playing taps will pierce the air at countless ceremonies around the country and at our bases overseas in tribute to those who gave their lives in order to safeguard human liberty. 
On this special day, our hearts and thoughts also turn to those who were disabled while serving their country. Their sacrifices and hardships endure, and daily earn anew the honor and compassion of a grateful nation. 
With a spirit of pride and gratitude, we honor all our veterans, and especially those who have fought on the battlefields of Europe and the beaches of the Pacific, in the jungles and mountains of Asia, in hostile waters and skies around the globe. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby invite the American people to join with me in a fitting salute on Veterans Day, Wednesday, November 11, 1981. I urge all Americans to recognize the valor and sacrifice of our veterans through appropriate public ceremonies and private prayers. 
I ask that we devote special attention to those veterans who are sick and disabled. Let us show them through our actions that we remember and honor them. There could be no better nor more tangible expression of our gratitude. 
I also call upon Federal, state, and local government officials to display the flag of the United States and to encourage and participate in patriotic activities throughout the country. I invite the business community, churches, schools, unions, civic and fraternal organizations, and the media to support this national observance with suitable commemorative expressions and programs. 
In Witness Wherever, I have hereunto set my hand this 26th clay of Oct. in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixth.
RONALD REAGAN