By the authority vested in me as President of the United States, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), a Presidential advisory committee on national housing policies and Federal programs in furtherance thereof, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the President's Commission on Housing. The Commission shall be composed of not more than twenty-two (22) members from private life and from State and local governments who shall be appointed by the President. 
(b) The President shall designate a Chairman and Vice-Chairman from among the members of the Commission. 
Sec. 2. Functions. The Commission shall advise the President and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development with respect to options for the development of a national housing policy consistent with the President's Economic Recovery Program and the role and objectives of the government in future housing availability. Consistent with these general functions, the Commission shall: 
a. Analyze the relationship of home ownership to political, social, and economic stability within the nation; 
b. review all existing federal housing policies and programs; 
c. assess those factors which contribute to the cost of housing as well as the current housing finance structure and practices in the country; 
d. seek to develop housing and mortgage finance options which strengthen the ability of the private sector to maximize opportunities for home-ownership and provide adequate shelter for all Americans; 
e. detail program options for basic reform of federally-subsidized housing; and, 
f. utilize such private and public sector expertise available in the housing field as the Commission, in its discretion, deems appropriate. 
The Commission shall provide information and advice to the President or to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development whenever requested and shall provide the President and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development with an interim report not later than October 30, 1981 and a final report not later than April 30, 1982. 
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation. However, they shall be entitled to travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707), to the extent funds are available therefor. 
(b) The Heads of the Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Commission such information as it may require for the purpose of carrying out its functions. 
(c) Any expenses of the Commission shall be paid from funds available to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. 
Sec. 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive Order, the responsibilities of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, except that of reporting annually to the Congress, which are applicable to the advisory committee established by this Order, shall be performed by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
(b) The Commission shall terminate upon presenting its final report and recommendations to the President and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
June 16, 1981. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 12:15 p.m., June 17, 1981]