By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, and in order to coordinate and implement Government policies with respect to integrity and efficiency in Federal programs, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment of the President's Council on Integrity and Efficiency. (a) There is established as an interagency committee the President's Council on Integrity and Efficiency. 
(b) The Council shall be composed of the following members: 
(1) The Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget who shall be the Chairman of the Council;
(2) The Deputy Attorney General; 
(3) The Director of the Office of Personnel Management; 
(4) The Executive Assistant Director of Investigations of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; 
(5) Inspector General, Department of Energy; 
(6) Inspector General, Department of Agriculture;
(7) Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development;
(8) Inspector General, Department of Labor;
(9) Inspector General, Department of Transportation;
(10) Inspector General, Veterans Administration; 
(11) Inspector General, Department of Health and Human Services; 
(12) Inspector General, Department of Education; 
(13) Inspector General of the Department of State and the Foreign Service; 
(14) Inspector General, Department of Commerce; 
(15) Inspector General, Department of Interior; 
(16) Inspector General, Community Services Administration; 
(17) Inspector General, Environmental Protection Agency; 
(18) Inspector General, General Services Administration; 
(19) Inspector General, National Aeronautics and Space Administration; 
(20) Inspector General, Small Business Administration; 
(21) A designee of the Secretary of the Treasury; 
(22) A designee of the Secretary of Defense, and 
(23) A designee of the Director of the United States International Development Cooperation Agency. 
(c) The Chairman shall, from time to time, invite the following to participate in the meetings of the Council: 
(1) The Comptroller General of the United States, and 
(2) The Postmaster General of the United States. 
Sec. 2. Functions of the Council. (a) The Council shall develop plans for coordinated government-wide activities which attack fraud and waste in government programs and operations. 
(b) In order to ensure coordinated relationships between Federal, State and local government agencies, and nongovernment entities with respect to all matters relating to the promotion of economy and efficiency, the Council shall develop standards for the management, operation, and conduct of inspector general-type activities. 
(c) Policies shall be developed by the Council which will ensure the establishment of a corps of well-trained and highly skilled auditors and investigators. 
(d) The Council shall develop interagency audit and investigation programs and projects to deal efficiently and effectively with those problems concerning fraud and waste which exceed the capability or jurisdiction of an individual agency. The Council will recognize the pre-eminent role of the Department of Justice in matters involving law enforcement and litigation. 
(e) The Council membership shall, to the extent of their own authority to do so, implement those coordinated plans, standards, policies, programs, and projects, (1) in order to conduct and supervise audits and investigations relating to programs and operations of the Government, and (2) in order to promote economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in the administration of programs and operations of the Government, as well as to detect fraud and abuse in such programs and operations. 
(f) The creation and operation of the Council shall not interfere with existing lines of authority and responsibility in the departments and agencies. 
Sec. 3. Responsibilities of the Chairman. (a) The Chairman shall, in consultation with the members of the Council, establish procedures for the Council; and, he shall establish the agenda for Council activities. 
(b) The Chairman shall, on behalf of the Council, report to the President on the activities of the Council. The Chairman shall advise the Council with respect to the reaction of the President on the Council's activities. 
(c) The Chairman shall provide agency heads with summary reports of the activities of the Council. 
(d) The Chairman shall establish such committees of the Council, including an executive committee, as he deems necessary or appropriate for the efficient conduct of Council functions. Committees of the Council may act for the Council in those areas that affect the membership of the committee. 
(e) The Chairman shall be supported by the Associate Director for Management of the Office of Management and Budget who shall advise and assist the Chairman in the execution of the entire range of responsibilities set forth above. 
Sec. 4. Coordinating Conference. (a) There is established as an interagency committee the Coordinating Conference of the President's Council on Integrity and Efficiency. 
(b) The Conference shall be composed of the Chairman of the Council and one representative of each Executive agency not represented on the Council. The head of each such agency shall designate as the agency's representative the official who is responsible for coordinating the agency's efforts to eliminate fraud and waste in the agency's programs and operations. 
(c) The Chairman shall convene meetings of the Conference at least quarterly. The Chairman provide for the dissemination to the Conference of appropriate information on the activities of the Council, in order to enable the Conference membership, to the extent of their own authority to do so, to implement the coordinated plans, standards, policies, programs, and projects developed by the Council. 
Sec. 5. Administrative Provisions. (a) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall provide the Council and the Conference with such administrative support as may be necessary for the performance of the functions of the Council and the Conference. 
(b) The head of each agency represented on the Council or the Conference shall provide its representative with such administrative support as may be necessary, in accordance with law, to enable the agency representative to carry out his responsibilities.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
March 26, 1981. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 3:34 p.m., March 26, 1981]