By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, including the Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act of 1973, as amended (15 U.S.C. 751 et seq.), and notwithstanding the delegations to the Secretary of Energy in Executive Order No. 11790 as amended by Executive Order No. 12038, and in order to provide for an immediate and orderly decontrol of crude oil and refined petroleum products, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. All crude oil and refined petroleum products are exempted from the price and allocation controls adopted pursuant to the Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act of 1973, as amended. The Secretary of Energy shall promptly take such action as is necessary to revoke the price and allocation regulations made unnecessary by this Order. 
Sec. 2. Notwithstanding Section 1 of this Order: 
(a) All reporting and record-keeping requirements in effect under the Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act, as amended, shall continue in effect until eliminated or modified by the Secretary of Energy. The Secretary of Energy shall promptly review' those requirements and shall eliminate them, except for those that are necessary for emergency planning and energy information gathering purposes required by law. 
(b) The State set-aside for middle distillates (Special Rule 10. 10 CFR Part 211, Subpart A, Appendix A) shall remain in effect until March 31, 1981. 
(c) The special allocation of middle distillates for surface passenger mass transportation (Special Rule 9, 10 CFR Part 211, Subpart A, Appendix A) shall remain in effect until March 31, 1981. 
(d) The Buy-Sell lists and orders issued prior to this Order under the Buy-Sell Program and the Emergency Buy-Sell Program (10 CFR 211.65) shall remain in effect according to their terms and the Secretary of Energy may issue such further orders as may be necessary to give effect to lists and orders issued prior to this Order. 
(e) The Canadian Allocation Program (10 CFR Part 214) shall remain in effect until March 31, 1981. 
Sec. 3. The Secretary of Energy may, pursuant to Executive Order No. 11790, as amended by Executive Order No. 12038, adopt such regulations and take such actions as he deems necessary to implement this Order, including the promulgation of entitlements notices for periods prior to this Order and the establishment of a mechanism for entitlements adjustments for periods prior to this Order. 
Sec. 4. The Secretary of Energy is authorized to take such other actions as he deems necessary to ensure that the purposes of this Order are effectuated. 
Sec. 5. Because advance notice of and public procedure on the decontrol provided by this Order would be likely to cause actions that could lead to economic distortions and dislocations, and would therefore be contrary to the public interest, this Order shall be effective immediately.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
January 28, 1981, 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:38 p.m., January 28, 1981]