By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), a task force on private sector initiatives policy of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the President's Task Force on Private Sector Initiatives. The Task Force shall be composed of members who shall be appointed by the President from among private citizens of the United States, public officials from State and local governments, and members of the Legislative and Executive Branches of the Federal government. No more than one member shall be a full time officer or employee of the Executive Branch. The members shall serve at the pleasure of the President. 
(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the Task Force. 
Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Task Force shall advise the President, the Secretary of Commerce, and other Executive agency heads with respect to: 
(1) Methods of developing, supporting and promoting private sector leadership and responsibility for meeting public needs. 
(2) Recommendations for appropriate action by the President to foster greater public-private partnerships and to decrease dependence on government. 
(b) The Task Force shall serve as a focal point for private sector action addressing public problems. 
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Task Force with such information with respect to private sector initiatives issues as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions. 
(b) Members of the Task Force shall serve without any compensation for their work on the Task Force. However, they may be allowed travel expenses, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707), to the extent funds are available therefor. 
(c) The Department of Commerce shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide the Task Force with such administrative services, funds, facilities, staff and other support services as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions. 
Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the responsibilities of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, except that of reporting annually to the Congress, which are applicable to the Task Force established by this Order, shall be performed by the Secretary of Commerce in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
(b) The Task Force shall terminate on December 31, 1982, unless sooner extended.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
October 14, 1981. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:17 p. m., October 14, 1981]