By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, including the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (94 Stat. 2071, 22 U.S.C. 3801 et seq.), Section 202 of the Revised Statutes (22 U.S.C. 2656), and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and in order to further provide for the administration of the Foreign Service of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Executive Order No. 12293 of February 23, 1981 (46 FR 13969), is amended by adding the following new sections: 
"Sec. 9. (a) Pursuant to Section 210 of the Act there is established in the Department of State the Board of the Foreign Service (22 U.S.C. 3930). 
"(b) The Board shall be composed of the designated number of representatives of the heads of the following agencies: 
"(1) Department of State, four members, at least three of whom must be career members of the Senior Foreign Service; 
"(2) International Communication Agency, two members, one of whom must be a career member of the Senior Foreign Service; 
"(3) United States International Development Cooperation Agency, two members, one of whom must be a career member of the Senior Foreign Service; 
"(4) Department of Agriculture, two members, one of whom must be a career member of the Senior Foreign Service; 
"(5) Department of Commerce, two members, one of whom must be a career member of the Senior Foreign Service;
"(6) Department of Labor, one member; "
"(7) Office of Personnel Management, one member; 
"(8) Office of Management and Budget, one member; and, 
"(9) Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, one member; 
"(c) The membership of the Board shall be selected from among officials who are knowledgeable in matters concerning the management of the Foreign Service. Except for the career members of the Senior Foreign Service from the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Commerce, the International Communication Agency, and the United States International Development Cooperation Agency, the members of the Board shall be selected from among those who have the rank of Assistant Secretary or higher or a position of comparable responsibility. 
"(d) The Secretary of State may from time to time request the heads of other agencies to designate representatives to participate in the functions of the Board on a regular or occasional basis. 
"(e) The Secretary of State shall designate a Chairman of the Board from among those members who are career members of the Senior Foreign Service. 
"(f) The Secretary of State shall provide all necessary administrative services and facilities for the Board. 
"Sec. 10. Pursuant to Section 202(a)(2)(B) and (a)(3)(B) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 3922(a)(2)(B), (a)(3)(B)), it is hereby determined to be necessary, in order to enable the Department of Agriculture and the Department of Commerce to carry out functions which require service abroad, for the respective Secretaries, in consultation with the Office of Personnel Management and the Office of Management and Budget, to be able to utilize the Foreign Service personnel system with respect to personnel of the following: 
"(a) The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the Department of Agriculture, not to exceed 125 positions, without the prior approval of the Director of the Office of Personnel Management; 
"(b) The United States Travel and Tourism Administration, and the International Trade Administration of the Department of Commerce, not to exceed 30 positions without the prior approval of the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, and providing that assignments to such positions be administered consistent with policies of the Foreign Commercial Service established under Executive Order No. 12188.". 
Sec. 2. In Section 8 of Executive Order No. 12293, the phrase "This Order" is amended to read "The first seven Sections of this Order". 
Sec. 3. Executive Order No. 11264 of December 31, 1965, as amended, is revoked.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
May 21, 1982. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:40 p.m., May 21, 1982]