By virtue of the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, including Section 205(a) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 486(a)), in order to improve management of Federal real property, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. (a) There is hereby established a Property Review Board. 
(b) The members of the Board shall be the Counsellor to the President; Director, Office of Management and Budget; Chairman, Council of Economic Advisers; Assistant to the President for Policy Development; Chief of Staff and Assistant to the President; Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs; and such other officers or employees of the Executive branch as the President may from time to time designate. One of the members of the Board shall be designated by the President as Chairman. 
(c) Staff, including an Executive Director, and other administrative support shall be provided from resources available to the President. 
Sec. 2. The Board shall perform such functions as may be directed by the President, including the following: 
(a) develop and review Federal real property acquisition, utilization, and disposal policies with respect to their relationship to other Federal policies; 
(b) advise the Administrator of General Services with respect to such standards and procedures for executive agencies that are necessary to ensure that real property holdings no longer essential to their activities and responsibilities are promptly identified and released for appropriate disposition; 
(c) review and examine prior disposals of surplus property for public benefit discount conveyances to ensure that the property is being used and maintained for the purpose for which it was conveyed; 
(d) receive the surveys and reports made by or to the Administrator of General Services pursuant to Sections 3 and 4 of this Order as well as other reports on Federal real property that are requested by the Board, with particular attention to resolution of conflicting claims on, and alternate uses for, any property described in those reports, consistent with laws governing Federal real property; 
(e) provide guidance to the Administrator of General Services in accord with Section 6 of this Order; 
(f) establish for each Executive agency annually the target amount of its real property holdings to be identified as excess; and 
(g) submit such recommendations and reports to the President as may be appropriate. 
Sec. 3. (a) All Executive agencies shall periodically review their real property holdings and conduct surveys of such property in accordance with standards and procedures determined by the Administrator of General Services pursuant to Section 206 of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 487), and this Order. 
(b) The head of each Executive agency, within 60 days of the date of this Order, shall report to the Administrator of General Services and the Board the agency's real property holdings which, in his judgment, are not utilized, are underutilized, or are not being put to optimum use. 
(c) The head of each Executive agency shall identify, and report to the Board, all those properties which can be considered for disposition in response to the targets established by the Board in subsection 2(f) of this Order. 
Sec. 4. The Administrator of General Services in consultation with the Board shall issue standards and procedures, conduct surveys, and cause surveys to be conducted, to ensure that the real property holdings of Executive agencies shall continually be evaluated with special emphasis on the identification of properties that are not utilized, are underutilized, or are not being put to optimum use. The Administrator shall consult with the Board and appropriate Executive agencies in order to (a) identify real property that is excess or surplus to the needs of the Executive agencies, and (b) make such real property available for its most beneficial use under the various laws of the United States affecting such property. 
Sec. 5. The Administrator of General Services shall report to the Board with respect to any property or portion thereof which has not been reported excess to the requirements of the holding agency and which, in the judgment of the Administrator, is not utilized, is underutilized, or is not being put to optimum use, and which he recommends should be reported as excess property. 
Sec. 6. Before the Administrator of General Services assigns or conveys property for public benefit discount conveyances, he shall first consult with the Board and consider such guidance as it may provide. 
Sec. 7. The Administrator of General Services shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide necessary advice and assistance to the Board to accomplish the objectives of this Order. 
Sec. 8. Executive Order No. 11954, as amended, is revoked.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
February 25, 1982. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:58 p.m., February 25, 1982]