Establishing an Emergency Board to Investigate a Dispute Between the Long Island Rail Road and Certain Labor Organizations 
A dispute exists between The Long Island Rail Road and certain labor organizations, designated on the list attached hereto and made a part hereof, representing employees of The Long Island Rail Road. 
The dispute has not heretofore been adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended ("the Act"). 
The New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the parent body of The Long Island Rail Road, has requested that the President establish an emergency board pursuant to Section 9A of the Act. 
Section 9A(c) of the Act provides that the President, upon request of a party, shall appoint an emergency board to investigate and report on the dispute. 
Now, Therefore, by the authority vested in me by Section 9A of the Act, as amended (45 U.S.C. ยง 159a), it is hereby ordered as follows: 
1-101. Establishment of Board. There is established, effective November 16, 1982, a board of three members to be appointed by the President to investigate this dispute. No member shall be pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of railroad employees or any carrier. The board shall perform its functions subject to the availability of funds. 
1-102. Report. The board shall report its findings to the President with respect to the dispute within 30 days after the date of its creation. 
1-103. Maintaining Conditions. As provided by Section 9A(c) of the Act, as amended, from the date of the creation of the Emergency Board, and for 120 days thereafter, no change, except by agreement of the parties, shall be made by the carrier or the employees, in the conditions out of which the dispute arose. 
1-104. Expiration. The Emergency Board shall terminate ninety (90) days after the submission of the report provided for in paragraph 1-102 of this Order.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
November 16, 1982. 
Labor Organizations
ARASA Division, Brotherhood of Railway and Airline Clerks
Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers 
Brotherhood of Railway, Airline and Steamship Clerks, Freight Handlers, Express and Station Employes
Brotherhood Railway Carmen of the United States and Canada
Brotherhood of Railroad Signalmen International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers
International Brotherhood of Boilermakers and Blacksmiths
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers
International Brotherhood of Firemen and Oilers
International Brotherhood of Teamsters
Police Benevolent Association
Railroad Yardmasters of America
Sheet Metal Workers International Association
United Transportation Union 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:17 a. m., November 17, 1982]