By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The Red Cross provides help to the destitute, the suffering, and the distressed and, in so doing, nourishes those basic attitudes and values essential to mankind's survival. 
For 101 years the American Red Cross has provided a humanitarian banner under which men and women of goodwill unite. By joining and serving, each American can become a "Good Neighbor." 
As our Nation looks increasingly to the dynamic forces of the private sector to address the problems of our communities, the Red Cross' role of channeling and coordinating volunteer efforts into productive activities will grow. Recognizing its expanding responsibilities, the Red Cross has recently undertaken an ambitious, ten-year program to help improve the health of every American. This program is based on the simple concept that individuals play the principal role in reducing major health risks to themselves. 
Through membership in the Red Cross, we can reach out to the world, to our country, and to our community—not only to help those in adversity but also to arm ourselves and others with information to deal effectively in matters of health and safety. Moreover, we can help the Red Cross fulfill its traditional responsibility of providing essential communication, welfare, and educational services to members of our Armed Forces in time of peace or war. 
Although chartered by Congress to perform specific duties, the Red Cross relies upon the time and funds of each of us to carry out its work. I urge the American people to assist our Red Cross by giving financial aid and volunteering their time so that, as the 1982 Red Cross theme says, "Together We Can Change Things." 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America and Honorary Chairman of the American National Red Cross, do hereby designate March 1982 as Red Cross Month. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day of Feb., in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixth.
RONALD REAGAN