By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory committee on National Security Telecommunications, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee which shall be composed of no more than 30 members. These members shall have particular knowledge and expertise in the field of telecommunications and represent elements of the Nation's telecommunications industry. Members of the Committee shall be appointed by the President. 
(b) The President shall annually designate a Chairman and a Vice Chairman from among the members of the Committee. 
(c) To assist the Committee in carrying out its functions, the Committee may establish appropriate subcommittees or working groups composed, in whole or in part, of individuals who are not members of the Committee. 
Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Committee shall provide to the President, among other things, information and advice from the perspective of the telecommunications industry with respect to the implementation of Presidential Directive 53 (PD/NSC-53), National Security Telecommunications Policy. 
(b) The Committee shall provide information and advice to the President regarding the feasibility of implementing specific measures to improve the telecommunications aspects of our national security posture. 
(c) The Committee shall provide technical information and advice in the identification and solution of problems which the Committee considers will affect national security telecommunications capability. 
(d) In the performance of its advisory duties, the Committee shall conduct reviews and assessments of the effectiveness of the implementation of PD/NSC-53, National Security Telecommunications Policy. 
(e) The Committee shall periodically report on matters in this Section to the President and to the Secretary of Defense in his capacity as Executive Agent for the National Communications System. 
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Committee such information with respect to national security telecommunications matters as it may require for the purpose of carrying out its functions. Information supplied to the Committee shall not, to the extent permitted by law, be available for public inspection. 
(b) Members of the Committee shall serve without any compensation for their work on the Committee. However, to the extent permitted by law, they shall be entitled to travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence. 
(c) Any expenses of the Committee shall, to the extent permitted by law, be paid from funds available to the Secretary of Defense. 
Sec. 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting annually to the Congress, which are applicable to the Committee, shall be performed by the Secretary of Defense, in accord with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
(b) In accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, the Committee shall terminate on December 31, 1982, unless sooner extended.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
September 13, 1982. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:39 p.m., September 13, 1982]