By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory committee to study cost control in the Federal Government, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the Executive Committee of the President's Private Sector Survey on Cost Control in the Federal Government. The Committee shall be composed of not more than 150 members appointed by the President from among citizens in private life. 
(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the Committee. 
Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Committee shall conduct a private sector survey on cost control in the Federal Government and shall advise the President and the Secretary of Commerce, and other Executive agency heads with respect to improving management and reducing costs. 
(b) The Committee shall conduct in-depth reviews of the operations of the Executive agencies as a basis for evaluating potential improvements in agency operations. 
(c) In fulfilling its functions the Committee shall consider providing recommendations in the following areas: 
(1) Opportunities for increased efficiency and reduced costs in the Federal Government that can be realized by Executive action or legislation; 
(2) Areas where managerial accountability can be enhanced and administrative control . can be improved; 
(3) Opportunities for managerial improvements over both the short and long term; 
(4) Specific areas where further study can be justified by potential savings; and 
(5) Information and data relating to governmental expenditures, indebtedness, and personnel management. 
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide to the Secretary of Commerce, the Committee and its staff units such information, including that relating to the structure, organization, personnel and operations of the Executive agencies, as may be required for carrying out the purposes of this Order. 
(b) Members of the Committee shall serve without compensation. 
(c) A management office may provide overall administrative staff support to the Committee, guide the day-to-day operations of the Survey and provide liaison with the Executive Office of the President; separate unit staffs may be utilized to provide such staff support as is necessary to accomplish reviews of individual agencies. 
(d) The Secretary of Commerce shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide the Committee with such information, administrative services, facilities, staff and other support services it may require. 
(e) The Committee is to be funded, staffed and equipped, to the extent practicable and permitted by law, by the private sector without cost to the Federal Government. To accomplish this objective, it is expected that the Secretary of Commerce will engage in a joint project, with a nonprofit organization, pursuant to Section 1 of Public Law 91-412 (15 U.S.C. 1525), for the purpose of providing staff support to the Committee as described in Section 3(c). 
Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the responsibilities of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, except that of reporting annually to the Congress, which are applicable to the Committee established by this Order, shall be performed by the Secretary of Commerce in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
(b) In accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, the Committee shall terminate on December 31, 1982, unless sooner extended.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
June 30, 1982. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:28 p.m., June 30, 1982]