By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, including Sections 3301 and 3302 of Title 5 of the United States Code, and in order to provide for the recruitment and selection of outstanding employees for careers in public sector management, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. There is hereby reconstituted the Presidential Management Intern Program. The purpose of the Program is to attract to the Federal service outstanding men and women from a variety of academic disciplines who have a clear interest in, and commitment to, a career in the analysis and management of public policies and programs. Individuals selected for the Program will be known as Presidential Management Interns.
Sec. 2. Eligible individuals are those who have pursued a course of study at the graduate level which demonstrates both an exceptional ability and the commitment stated above. Such individuals at the time of application must have recently received or must expect to receive soon an appropriate advanced degree. 
Sec. 3. (a) The Office of Personnel Management shall provide specific guidance as to what constitutes an appropriate advanced degree. 
(b) The Office of Personnel Management shall develop appropriate procedures for the recruitment, nomination, screening, placement and continuing career development of outstanding individuals possessing the qualifications described above. 
(c) In developing those procedures, the Office of Personnel Management shall be guided by the following principles and policies: 
(1) The number of new Presidential Management Interns selected shall not exceed two hundred in any fiscal year. 
(2) Final placement of Presidential Management Interns shall be made by the head of the department, agency, or component within the Executive Office of the President in which the Intern is to be employed, or by the designee thereof. 
(3) Universities and colleges participating in the Program shall make nominations for the Program. In making nominations, they shall establish competitive selection processes and procedures to ensure that all applicants receive careful and thorough review. 
(4) The procedures so developed shall provide for such affirmative actions as the Office of Personnel Management deems appropriate to assure equal employment opportunity. The procedures shall also provide for the application of appropriate veterans preference criteria. 
Sec. 4. (a) Successful candidates shall be appointed as Presidential Management Interns to positions in Schedule A of the excepted service. The appointment shall not exceed two years unless extended by the Federal department or agency, with the concurrence of the Office of Personnel Management, for up to one additional year. 
(b) Tenure for the Presidential Management Interns shall be governed by the following principles and policies: 
(1) Assigned responsibilities shall be consistent with an Intern's educational background and career interests, and the purposes of this Program. 
(2) Continuation in the Program shall be contingent upon satisfactory performance by the Interns throughout the internship period. 
(3) Except as provided in subsection (4) of this Section, service as an Intern shall confer no rights to further Federal employment in either the competitive or excepted service upon the expiration of the internship period. 
(4) Competitive civil service status may be granted to Interns who satisfactorily complete their internships and meet all other requirements prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management. 
Sec. 5. Those individuals who are currently undergoing the process of selection, or who were selected or appointed under the provisions of Executive Order No. 12008 and who have not at this time completed their scheduled period of excepted service, may continue their internships under the terms of this Order. 
Sec. 6. The Office of Personnel Management shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this Order. 
Sec. 7. Executive Order No. 12008 of August 25, 1977 is revoked.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
May 24, 1982. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:39 p.m., May 24, 1982]