By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory committee on victims of crime, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the President's Task Force on Victims of Crime. The Task Force shall be composed of members from public and private life who shall be appointed by the President. 
(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the Task Force. 
Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Task Force shall conduct a review of national, state and local policies and programs affecting victims of crime. 
(b) The Task Force shall work with the Cabinet Council on Legal Policy. 
(c) It shall advise the President and the Attorney General with respect to actions which can be undertaken to improve our efforts to assist and protect victims of crime. 
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) Members of the Task Force shall serve without any compensation for their work on the Task Force. However, they shall be entitled to travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707). 
(b) Any expenses of the Task Force shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, be paid from funds available to the Attorney General. 
Sec. 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the responsibilities of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, except that of reporting annually to the Congress, which are applicable to the Task Force established by this Order, shall be performed by the Attorney General in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
(b) The Task Force shall terminate on December 31, 1982, unless sooner extended.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
April 23, 1982. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4 p.m., April 23, 1982]