By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, including Section 7103 (b) (2) of Title 5 and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and having determined that it is necessary in the interest of national security to suspend certain labor-management relations provisions with respect to overseas activities of the Department of Defense, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Suspensions. With regard to United States citizen employees of the Department of Defense, including the Military Departments, who are employed outside the United States as defined in 5 U.S.C. 7103 (a) (18), with the exception of those employed in the Republic of Panama: 
(a) The provisions of 5 U.S.C. 7105(a)(2) (D), (E), (G), and (H) and of 5 U.S.C. 7123(b) are suspended with respect to any matter which substantially impairs the implementation by the United States Forces of any treaty or agreement, including any minutes or understandings thereto, between the United States and the Government of the host nation; 
(b) The provisions of 5 U.S.C. 7102(2), 7114(a)(1), 7114(a)(4), 7116(a)(5), and 7117(e) are suspended with respect to any matter proposed for bargaining which would substantially impair the implementation by the United States Forces of any treaty or agreement, including any minutes or understandings thereto between the United States and the Government of the host nation; 
(c) The provisions of 5 U.S.C. 7116(a)(7) and 7117(b) are suspended with regard to any regulation governing the implementation by the United States Forces of any treaty or agreement, including any minutes or understandings thereto, between the United States and the Government of the host nations; and 
(d) The provisions of 5 U.S.C. 7121(b)(3)(C) are suspended with respect to any grievance involving the implementation by the United States Forces of any treaty or agreement, including any minutes or understandings thereto, between the United States and the Government of the host nation. 
Sec. 2. Disputes. Disputes between a labor organization and the United States Forces as to whether a particular matter is covered by one or more of the suspensions set forth in this Order shall be referred to the Secretary of Defense. The decision of the Secretary in such disputes shall be made after consultation with the Secretary of State and shall be final. The Secretary of Defense may delegate this authority, but only to the Deputy Secretary of Defense, an Under Secretary of Defense, or an Assistant Secretary of Defense. The functions assigned to the Secretary of State may not be delegated or assigned to anyone below the rank of an Assistant Secretary of State.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
November 4, 1982. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:04 a.m., November 5, 1982]