By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the statutes of the United States of America, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory committee on the role of private enterprise in international economic development, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section I. Establishment. (a) There is established the International Private Enterprise Task Force. The Task Force shall be composed of no more than twenty-one members who shall be appointed by the President from among leaders in the private sector. Members will be chosen primarily from the chief operating or chief executive officers of private enterprises, including agribusinesses. 
(b) The President shall designate a Chairman and Vice Chairman from among the members of the Task Force. 
Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Task Force shall advise the President, the Director of the United States International Development Cooperation Agency, and the Administrator of the Agency for International Development with respect to the role private enterprise can play in the implementation of programs and activities under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended. 
(b) The Task Force shall advise on the involvement of specific private enterprises in such programs and activities. 
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Task Force with such information as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions. 
(b) Members of the Task Force shall serve without any compensation for their work on the Task Force. However, they may be allowed transportation and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707). 
(e) The Agency for International Development shall provide the Task Force with such administrative services, funds, facilities, staff and other support services as may be necessary. 
Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order, the responsibilities of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, except that of reporting annually to the Congress, which are applicable to the Task Force established by this Order, shall be performed by the Administrator of the Agency for International Development in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
(b) In accord with the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, the Task Force shall terminate on December 31, 1982, unless sooner extended.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
November 20, 1982. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:13 a.m., November 23, 1982]