By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
American Jews have made significant contributions to every phase of American life. They have served this Nation by fighting for her freedom, building her industry, working for her goals, and nurturing her dreams. They have brought distinction to every field of American endeavor and have participated in the cultural development, economic growth, and spiritual progress of America. 
The Jewish people remain dedicated to ancient and revered traditions which have been severely tested over the centuries. From the observance of Passover, which tells the story of the passage from bondage to freedom and rekindles the hope for all who are oppressed, through the participation in the National Days of Remembrance honoring the victims and survivors of the Holocaust and the anniversary of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising, Jews pay tribute to their past. 
Each spring, the American Jewish community remembers its struggles, celebrates its achievements, and renews its commitment to a future of continued advancement. It is during this time that American Jews renew their common heritage with Jews throughout the world by celebrating such occasions as Israel's Independence Day and Solidarity Day for Soviet Jews. In particular, these Jewish traditions have been honored in 1983 by the American Gathering of Holocaust Survivors. 
In recognition of the special significance of this time of year to American Jews, in tribute to the important contributions they have made to American life, and in tribute to the cultural diversity of the American people, the Congress of the United States, by House Joint Resolution 80, has authorized and requested the President to proclaim April 17 through April 24, 1983, as Jewish Heritage Week. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning April 17, 1983, as Jewish Heritage Week. I call upon the people of the United States, Federal, State and local government officials, and interested organizations to observe that week with appropriate ceremonies, activities, and reflection. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 19th day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventh.
RONALD REAGAN