By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The people of this great Nation owe a tremendous debt of gratitude to the brave men and women of our Armed Forces who have fought to preserve America's freedom and independence. National Paralyzed Veterans Recognition Day offers us an opportunity to express our appreciation to a very special group of our veterans—those who suffer the disability of paralysis. 
On this day of tribute to these dedicated citizens, we honor them for the great sacrifice they made for their country, and praise them for the courage, determination, and perseverance they demonstrate daily in facing the difficult challenges of their disabilities. The strong will and spirit which they exhibit in overcoming the limitations of their paralysis serve as an inspiring display of the American drive to achieve, build, and advance which has kept this country strong for the past two centuries. Each of' us is heartened by the knowledge that this Nation's paralyzed veterans lead active, productive lives which enrich us all. It is indeed appropriate that we set aside a special day upon which to thank them for their past and continuing contributions to this country. 
In recognition of the sacrifices and contributions that these veterans have made and the service rendered by the many veterans who later suffered paralysis from non-service related causes, the Congress of the United States, by House Joint Resolution 258, has designated August 3, 1983, as "National Paralyzed Veterans Recognition Day," and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of that day. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim August 3, 1983, as National Paralyzed Veterans Recognition Day. I call upon the people of the United States and interested organizations to mark this day with appropriate observances to honor the sacrifices and service of paralyzed veterans. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 29th day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightythree, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.
RONALD REAGAN