By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), the National Bipartisan Commission on Central America, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the National Bipartisan Commission on Central America. The Commission shall be composed of not more than 12 members appointed or designated by the President. These members shall be drawn from among distinguished leaders of the government, business, labor, education, Hispanic and religious communities. No more than seven members shall be of the same political party. 
(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the Commission. 
Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Commission shall study the nature of United States interests in the Central American region and the threats now posed to those interests. Based on its findings, the Commission shall provide advice to the President, the Secretary of State and the Congress on elements of a long-term United States policy that will best respond to the challenges of social, economic, and democratic development in the region, and to internal and external threats to its security and stability. The Commission also shall provide advice on means of building a national consensus on a comprehensive United States policy for the region. 
(b) The Commission shall report to the President by December 1, 1983. 
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Commission such information as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions. 
(b) Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation for their work on the Commission. However, members appointed from among private citizens of the United States may, subject to the availability of funds, be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707). 
(c) The Secretary of State shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Commission with such administrative services, funds, facilities, staff and other support services as may be necessary for the performance of its functions. 
Sec. 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, which are applicable to the Commission, shall be performed by the Secretary of State, in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
(b) The Commission shall, unless otherwise extended, terminate 60 days after submitting its final report.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
July 19, 1983. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:16 a.m., July 20, 1983]