By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
More than 50 million American youth are included in the Nation's general population. These young citizens play major roles in our society as they mature into adulthood. They make important contributions to our country by pursuing their education, working in the economy, upholding the law, and joining the military services. 
Our young Americans have every reason to be proud of their contributions to the American way of life. They can look forward to doing more as they complete their educations and move into positions in science, space, education, medicine, business, labor, government, military service, and other fields. The future of America depends on the preparation and dedication of our younger citizens, because one day, it will be their responsibility to ensure the security of our Nation, both at home and abroad. They must be given every opportunity to achieve their goals as they pass through adolescence to full maturity. 
Among the American youth population are many in special need. The Federal government works actively with State and local governments and the private sector in important programs responding to the needs of runaway and homeless youth, unemployed youth, and to those who experience physical, emotional, and social handicaps. 
To assure our Nation's youth of our commitment to share our knowledge, experience, and wisdom, which will help nurture in them democratic principles, and the development of strong moral and spiritual values so vital to the survival and future betterment of America, the Congress of the United States, by Senate Joint Resolution 116, had designated the week of September 4 through September 10, 1983, as "Youth of America Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of that week. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning September 4, 1983 as Youth of America Week. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.
RONALD REAGAN