By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Each year this Nation sets aside a day on which to honor fathers for their many contributions to the well-being of their children, their families, and our society. 
Traditionally, Americans have looked to fathers to provide leadership and stability for their families. Fathers play a vital role in providing sustenance, protection, and guidance for their families and the community at large. We owe them our high esteem, for their presence and gift of love as role models, providers, and defenders of the Nation. They not only play an invaluable part in transmitting the values and traditions of our society, but are instrumental in encouraging the self-confidence of our youngsters in facing the future. 
Fatherhood is both a great responsibility and one of the most rewarding and pleasurable experiences life has to offer. Father's Day presents a special opportunity to appreciate our fathers—to consider all they have done, and all they continue to do, in fostering children's physical and emotional growth, encouraging success, easing failure, maintaining family life, contributing vitally to the economy, and serving their communities. The quality and scope of their activities, as well as their overriding concern for the well-being of their families and our country, inspire and strengthen us as individuals and as a Nation. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, in accordance with the joint resolution of the Congress (36 U.S.C. 142a), do hereby proclaim Sunday, June 19, 1983, as Father's Day. I invite the States and communities and the people of the United States to observe that day with appropriate ceremonies as a mark of gratitude and abiding affection for their fathers. I direct government officials to display the flag of the United States on all Federal government buildings, and I urge all citizens to display the flag at their homes and other suitable places on that day. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 1st day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventh.
RONALD REAGAN