By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The Secretary of Energy has advised me that no purpose is currently served by the existing system of licensing of imports of petroleum and petroleum products. The Secretary of Energy also recommends that I retain the current prohibition on imports of Libyan crude oil into the United States, its territories and possessions, which was adopted in Proclamation No. 4907, on the ground that such imports would be inimical to the United States national security. The Secretary further recommends that he continue to monitor imports of petroleum and petroleum products in order to be able to advise me as to the need for further action, as appropriate, under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended. 
I agree with the recommendations of the Secretary of Energy. Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, including Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862), do hereby proclaim that: 
Section 1. Proclamation No. 3279, as amended, is revoked. 
Sec. 2. The Secretary of Energy shall continue to monitor imports of petroleum and petroleum products and shall, from time to time, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Commerce, and such other federal agencies as he deems appropriate, review the status of such imports with respect to the national security. The Secretary shall inform the President of any circumstances which in his opinion might indicate the need for further action by the President under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act. 
Sec. 3. (a) No crude oil produced in Libya may be imported into the United States, its territories or possessions. 
(b) The Secretary of the Treasury may issue such regulations and interpretations as he deems necessary to implement this section. 
Sec. 4. The Secretary of Energy may continue to consider requests for refund of fees paid under Proclamation No. 3279, as amended, if such requests were filed with the Secretary prior to the effective date of this Proclamation. Any such requests shall be considered in accordance with the previously applicable provisions of Proclamation No. 3279, as amended, and implementing regulations thereunder. 
Sec. 5. The revocation of Proclamation No. 3279, as amended, shall not affect the authority of any federal department or agency to institute and conduct any administrative, civil or criminal audit, investigation or proceeding based on any act committed or liability incurred while the Proclamation was in effect. 
Sec. 6. The revocation of Proclamation No. 3279, as amended, shall not affect the presently applicable tariff rates for imports of petroleum and petroleum products, as reflected in the Tariff Schedules of the United States, Schedule 4, part 10. 
Sec. 7. This Proclamation shall be effective immediately. 
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this 22nd day of December, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.
RONALD REAGAN