By virtue of the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, including Section 205(a) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 486(a)), in order to provide guidance and oversight for programs for the development of minority business enterprise pursuant to my statement of December 17, 1982 concerning Minority Business Development; and to implement the commitment of the Federal government to the goal of encouraging greater economic opportunity for minority entrepreneurs, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Minority Business Development Plans. (a) Minority business enterprise development plans shall be developed by each Federal agency having substantial procurement or grantmaking authority. Such agencies shall submit these plans to the Cabinet Council on Commerce and Trade on an annual basis. 
(b) These annual plans shall establish minority enterprise development objectives for the participating agencies and methods for encouraging both prime contractors and grantees to utilize minority business enterprises. The plans shall, to the extent possible, build upon the programs administered by the Minority Business Development Agency and the Small Business Administration, including the goals established pursuant to Public Law 95-507. 
(c) The Secretary of Commerce and the Administrator of the Small Business Administration, in consultation with the Cabinet Council on Commerce and Trade, shall establish uniform guidelines for all Federal agencies to be utilized in establishing the minority business programs set forth in Section 2 of this Order. 
(d) The participating agencies shall furnish an annual report regarding the implementation of their programs in such form as the Cabinet Council on Commerce and Trade may request, and at such time as the Secretary of Commerce shall designate. 
(e) The Secretary of Commerce shall provide an annual report to the President, through the Cabinet Council on Commerce and Trade, on activities under this Order and agency implementation of minority business development programs. 
Sec. 2. Minority Business Development Responsibilities of Federal Agencies. (a) To the extent permitted by law and consistent with its primary mission, each Federal agency which is required to develop a minority business development plan under Section 1 of this Order shall, to accomplish the objectives set forth in its plan, establish programs concerning provision of direct assistance, procurement assistance, and management and technical assistance to minority business enterprises. 
(b) Each Federal agency shall, to the extent permitted by law and consistent with its primary mission, establish minority business development programs, consistent with Section 211 of Public Law 95-507, to develop and implement incentive techniques to encourage greater minority business subcontracting by Federal prime contractors. 
(c) Each Federal agency shall encourage recipients of Federal grants and cooperative agreements to achieve a reasonable minority business participation in contracts let as a result of its grants and agreements. In eases where State and local governments are the recipients, such encouragement shall be consistent with principles of federalism. 
(d) Each Federal agency shall provide the Cabinet Council on Commerce and Trade such information as it shall request from time to time concerning the agency's progress in implementing these programs.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
July 14, 1983. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:42 a.m., July 15, 1983]