By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Reye's Syndrome is a serious illness that may attack the brain and liver of a child recovering from influenza, chicken pox, or some other viral infection. The cause of this disease—which affects an estimated 600 to 1,200 children in the United States each year—is unknown. 
The first signs of Reye's Syndrome in a child are repeated vomiting, fatigue, and general irritation. The disease may progress to a life-threatening stage. If early symptoms are recognized and treated promptly, however, it is less likely that the disease will cause dangerous brain swelling, coma, or death. 
New treatments are being developed to help victims of Reye's Syndrome recover. This improved outlook is a direct result of scientific research carried out by public and private investigators and physicians, many of whom are supported by the American Reye's Syndrome Associations, the National Reye's Syndrome Foundation (Ohio), the National Reye's Syndrome Foundation (Michigan), and the United States Public Health Service. Within the Public Health Service, the Centers for Disease Control, the Food and Drug Administration and the National Institutes of Health are carrying out research projects and constant surveillance of eases. 
Much still remains to be learned about Reye's Syndrome. Coordinated research is needed to find better ways to treat this disorder and ultimately to prevent it. Public education is also essential, because parents and physicians can help to protect the Nation's children from its lethal effects if they learn to recognize this disease in its earliest stages. 
To enhance the public's awareness of the gravity of Reye's Syndrome, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 34, has designated the week of November 7 through November 13, 1983, as "National Reye's Syndrome Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of that week. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning November 7, 1983, as National Reye's Syndrome Week, and I call upon the people of the United States to observe that week with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.
RONALD REAGAN