By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The United Nations remains today—38 years after its creation—an institution uniquely endowed to promote international political, economic, social, and technical cooperation. Conceived during a brutal war and nurtured in a troubled peace, the United Nations has seen many of its shining promises realized, but many others have been frustrated. More often than the world community can afford, rivalries and divisions among states prompt abuse or misuse of the powers and machinery of the United Nations. Despite these imperfections, the system and its machinery continue to offer opportunities for mediating differences which threaten to erupt in hostilities; for arranging and overseeing agreements to end tensions or conflicts; for promoting the technical and scientific cooperation essential to meet problems of growth and development; and for coping with international emergencies of all kinds. 
The people and the Government of the United States of America take pride in the support—moral, intellectual, political, and financial—which we have rendered to the United Nations, and in the leadership which we have provided to help bring about its foremost achievements. We also take pride in the knowledge that the principles of the United Nations charter are the same ones which underlie our liberty, our progress, and our development as a democratic society. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate Monday, October 24, 1983, as United Nations Day, and urge all Americans to better acquaint themselves with the activities and accomplishments of the United Nations. 
I have appointed William M. Ellinghaus to serve as 1983 United States Chairman for United Nations Day, and I welcome the role of the United Nations Association of the United States of America in working with him to celebrate this special day. 
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this 27th day of Sept., in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.
RONALD REAGAN