By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The challenge of greater productivity growth is of supreme importance to America's future. Only through productivity gains can real living standards be improved. Greater productivity growth is the cornerstone of price stability and sustained economic growth. It is vital to regaining our competitive position in world markets and creating job opportunities for an expanding American labor force. 
Productive societies reward saving, investing, building, and creating rather than consuming. A productive society lives within its means and does not pursue a pattern in its spending habits that results in simply shifting its burdens forward to the future. Productive societies also nourish the spirit of adventure, innovation and entrepreneurship. Productive societies share common objectives and their leading institutions work together—business, government, labor, and academia view each other as partners, not adversaries. 
We have made much progress in restoring the foundation for a prosperous and productive society. By reducing the rate of growth of government spending, by strengthening the incentives to save and invest, by eliminating many unnecessary and burdensome regulations, and by encouraging monetary policies that ensure the price stability needed for lasting economic growth we have created an environment for sustained increases in productivity. 
The improvement of our Nation's productivity depends on all Americans. The recently concluded White House Conference on Productivity brought together an outstanding group of distinguished citizens from all walks of life and sectors of our economy. Their recommendations for actions at all levels in the public and private sectors will help us build on the foundation we have laid. 
In order to encourage better understanding of the need for productivity growth and the development of methods to improve productivity in the private and public sectors, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 142, has designated the week of October 3 through October 9, 1983, as National Productivity Improvement Week. 
Now, Therefore, L Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of October 3 through October 9, 1983, as National Productivity Improvement Week. I call upon the people of the United States to observe such week with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 4th day of Oct, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightythree, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.
RONALD REAGAN