By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
January 1983 marks the one hundredth anniversary of the signing of the Pendleton Act which created the Federal civil service system. The Act established the principle of hiring according to merit in the Federal service, and although the system has been modified and refined through the years, it continues to play an essential role in ensuring the stability of the world's largest and most successful democracy. Our ability to function effectively in times of trial and upheaval and to prosper when various national crises have passed depends in no small degree upon the contributions of those who make up our civil service system. 
The American civil service system succeeds because of several factors. It is built upon the concept that selection of career government employees must be based upon merit principles, the goal being to hire the most capable and qualified people to do the public's work. It also provides for a vital partnership between political leaders, who bring with them policies and programs endorsed by the electorate, and career civil servants, who provide the expertise and continuity which are essential to the effective operation of a government as large and varied as ours. 
To commemorate the Centennial and to show our appreciation to Federal employees past and present, public agencies and private groups throughout America will sponsor events highlighting the history and accomplishments of the civil service system during January 1983 and in succeeding months. 
In recognition of the tremendous contributions of public employees to our Nation's government, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 619, has designated January 17, 1983, as "Public Employees' Appreciation Day" and has requested the President to issue a Proclamation in observance of that day. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, in recognition of the Centennial of the Federal civil service system, do hereby proclaim January 17, 1983, as Public Employees' Appreciation Day. 
I urge all Americans to join with members of the Federal civil service system, and the many professional associations and employee unions which represent them, in commemorating the centennial anniversary of the institution to which they belong and in appreciation of the countless contributions they have made on behalf of all Americans over the past one hundred years. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 10th day of January, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventh.
RONALD REAGAN