By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to lessen the burdens of government and of local communities in meeting needs of human health and welfare, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Executive Order No. 12353 of March 23, 1982, is amended as follows: 
(a) By deleting Section 1 of that Order and inserting in its place the following provision: 
"Section 1. The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall make arrangements for voluntary health and welfare agencies to solicit contributions from Federal employees and members of the uniformed services at their places of employment or duty. These arrangements shall take the form of an annual Combined Federal Campaign in which eligible voluntary agencies are authorized to take part.". 
(b) In Section 2 insert "(a)" after the Section number and add the following new subsection after the existing provision: 
"(b) In establishing those criteria, the Director shall be guided by the following principles and policies: 
"(1) The objectives of the Combined Federal Campaign are to lessen the burdens of government and of local communities in meeting needs of human health and welfare; to provide a convenient channel through which Federal public servants may contribute to these efforts; to minimize or eliminate disruption of the Federal workplace and costs to Federal taxpayers that such fund-raising may entail; and to avoid the reality and appearance of the use of Federal resources in aid of fund-raising for political activity or advocacy of public policy, lobbying, or philanthropy of any kind that does not directly serve needs of human health and welfare. 
"(2) To meet these objectives, eligibility for participation in the Combined Federal Campaign shall be limited to voluntary, charitable, health and welfare agencies that provide or support direct health and welfare services to individuals or their families. Such direct health and welfare services must be available to Federal employees in the local campaign solicitation area, unless they are rendered to needy persons overseas. Such services must directly benefit human beings, whether children, youth, adults, the aged, the ill and infirm, or the mentally or physically handicapped. Such services must consist of care, research or education in the fields of human health or social adjustment and rehabilitation; relief of victims of natural disasters and other emergencies; or assistance to those who are impoverished and therefore in need of food, shelter, clothing, education, and basic human welfare services. 
"(3) Agencies that seek to influence the outcomes of elections or the determination of public policy through political activity or advocacy, lobbying, or litigation on behalf of parties other than themselves shall not be deemed charitable health and welfare agencies and shall not be eligible to participate in the Combined Federal Campaign. 
"(4) International organizations that provide health and welfare services overseas, and that meet the eligibility criteria except for the local services criterion, shall be eligible to participate in each local solicitation area of the Combined Federal Campaign. 
"(5) Local voluntary, charitable, health and welfare agencies that are not affiliated with a national agency or federation but that satisfy the eligibility criteria set forth in this Order and by the Director, shall be permitted to participate in the Combined Federal Campaign in the local solicitation areas in which they provide or support direct health and welfare services.". 
Sec. 2. All rules, regulations, and directives continued or issued under Executive Order No. 12353 shall continue in full force and effect until revoked or modified under the provisions of this Order.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
February 10, 1983. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:56 a.m., February 11, 1983]