By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Systemic lupus erthematosus (also known as lupus, or SLE) is a serious, potentially fatal, connective tissue disease that can affect many different organs of the body. More than 500,000 Americans are estimated to have lupus, approximately 90 percent of whom are women. The disease usually begins in adolescence or young adult life. 
Scientists believe that lupus is caused by disturbances in the body's immune system; hormonal abnormalities and genetic factors also seem to be important. In its systemic form, the disease may involve the skin, joints, kidneys, heart, lungs and brain, in varying combinations. 
The outlook for victims of lupus has been improving in recent years. The survival rate has increased as a result of greater awareness of the disease, improved diagnostic methods, and more effective treatments. However, new research findings and new approaches to diagnosis and improved treatment are urgently needed to eliminate lupus as a cause of human suffering. The Federal government and private voluntary organizations have developed a strong, enduring partnership committed to lupus research. I am confident that this cooperation will hasten the time when the cause and cure for the disease will be found. 
In recognition of the progress being made in research, diagnostic methods and effective treatments for the cure and alleviation of lupus, and the need for greater public awareness of this disease, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 102, has authorized and requested the President to proclaim the week of October 16 through October 22, 1983, as "Lupus Awareness Week." 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of October 16 through October 22, 1983, as "Lupus Awareness Week," and I call upon the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this 13th day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.
RONALD REAGAN