By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
"Fidelity, Bravery, Integrity." As the motto of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, these words serve as a reminder of the vital part this institution plays in maintaining order and justice in our free society. From its inception under President Theodore Roosevelt to the present, the FBI has worked diligently to enforce our laws, ensure the Nation's security, and further the pursuit of justice across our land. Under the strong and dedicated leadership of its Directors, the FBI has been shaped into the modern, efficient, and highly regarded crime-fighting agency it is today. 
During the past three-quarters of a century, the FBI has fought against gangsters, foiled Axis-inspired espionage and sabotage, dealt serious blows to organized crime, worked to stem racial violence, and undertook the responsibility of safeguarding America against threats of hostile intelligence agents and efforts to subvert our form of government. Beyond this, today's FBI is not only preeminent in scientific investigative support, but has demonstrated great vision and distinction in the performance of its duties and the training of its Special Agents. 
In a world tested by terrorism and turmoil, the FBI faces new, complex, and difficult challenges. In dealing with these problems, the Nation can be confident that the agency will continue to protect the rights of our citizens while vigorously addressing the ravages of crime. 
By designating July 26, 1983, as FBI Day, we mark the seventy-fifth anniversary of the creation of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. In celebrating this event, law enforcement agencies throughout the Nation join the American people in expressing their debt of gratitude to the men and women who have made the FBI the world's foremost criminal investigative organization. This major milestone provides an opportunity for all our citizens to join in honoring those whose dedicated efforts have made the FBI a formidable foe of criminals and a stalwart defender of America's freedom and security. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate July 26, 1983, as FBI Day. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 26th day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightythree, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.
RONALD REAGAN