By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, including the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. 1), and in order to create a Commission to develop recommendations with respect to the conduct of relations between the United States and Japan, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the Presidential Commission on the Conduct of United States-Japan Relations. The Commission shall be composed of no more than eight members appointed or designated by the President from among citizens of the United States. The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the Commission. 
(b) The members of this Commission will constitute the United States membership of the bi-national Advisory Group on United States-Japan Relations to be established by the two Governments. 
Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Commission shall develop recommendations with respect to the conduct of the United States-Japan relations. The Commission shall examine both the bilateral and multilateral dimensions of the relationship of the two countries with a view to identifying issues requiring resolution and opportunities for expanded cooperation, and make recommendations on ways by which the United States and Japan can better carry out their common responsibilities aimed at promoting world peace and prosperity. 
(b) The Commission shall develop its recommendations within the framework of the Advisory Group on United States-Japan Relations. This Group will address the question of how the United States and Japan can better fulfill their long-term responsibilities for world peace and a healthy international economy, and how current issues of mutual concern affect those long-term prospects. 
(c) To pursue its goals in connection with participation in the Advisory Group on United States-Japan Relations, the Commission may conduct studies, hearings, and meetings as it deems necessary; assemble and disseminate information, and issue reports and other publications; and coordinate, sponsor, or oversee projects, studies, events, and other activities it deems necessary or desirable. 
(d) The Commission shall submit its recommendations to the President and the Secretary of State from time to time as it deems appropriate, but in any case shall submit its initial recommendations within 12 months after the Advisory Group on United States-Japan Relations formally has begun its deliberations, or before the date of termination of the Commission, whichever occurs earlier. 
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation for their work on the Commission. However, members appointed from among private citizens of the United States may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707). 
(b) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Commission such information and advice on the conduct of United States-Japan relations as it may require for the purpose of carrying out its functions. 
(c) The Department of State shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Commission with such administrative services, funds, facilities, staff and other support services, and pay such expenses as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions. 
Sec. 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. 1), which are applicable to the Commission, except that of reporting annually to the Congress, shall be performed by the Secretary of State in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
(b) The Commission shall terminate one year from this date.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
May 12, 1983. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:22 a.m., May 13, 1983]