By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory committee on women's business ownership, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the President's Advisory Committee on Women's Business Ownership. The Committee shall be composed of no more than 15 members appointed or designated by the President. These members shall have particular knowledge and expertise concerning the current status of businesses owned by women in the economy and methods by which these enterprises might be encouraged to expand. 
(b) The President shall designate a Chairperson from among the members of the Committee. 
Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Committee shall review the status of businesses owned by women; foster, through the private sector, financial, educational, and procurement support for women entrepreneurs; and provide appropriate advice to the President and the Administrator of the Small Business Administration on these issues. 
(b) The Committee shall submit reports to the President on a periodic basis. 
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Committee such information as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions. 
(b) Members of the Committee shall serve without compensation for their work on the Committee. However, members appointed from among private citizens of the United States may, subject to the availability of funds, be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707). 
(c) The Administrator of the Small Business Administration shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Committee with such administrative services, funds, facilities, staff and other support services as may be necessary for the performance of its functions. 
Sec. 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, except that of reporting to the Congress, which are applicable to the Committee, shall be performed by the Administrator of the Small Business Administration, in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
(b) The Committee shall terminate one year from the date of this Order.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
June 22, 1983. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:43 a.m., June 24, 1983]