By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
National Hispanic Heritage Week pays tribute to a rich part of America's cultural tradition, offering all Americans a welcome opportunity to recognize the qualities and contributions of Hispanic Americans from earliest colonial times to the present. The dedication to principles of loyalty, patriotism, strong religious faith and devotion to family displayed by Hispanic Americans is basic to the American way of life. 
Hispanic Americans have played an important role in the development of our rich cultural heritage and every State has benefitted from their influence. They have distinguished themselves in the arts and sciences, education, industry, government and many other areas of productive endeavor. Indeed, they are a part of all that makes America great. 
Just as their forefathers sought a dream in the New World, Hispanic Americans have realized their dreams in our great Nation and will continue to do so. Their dedication to higher purposes reflects what is best in the American spirit. 
Through the years, Hispanic American citizens have risen to the call of duty in defense of liberty and freedom. Their bravery is well-known and has been demonstrated time and again, dating back to the aid rendered by General Bernardo de Galvez during the American Revolution. 
In recognition of the many achievements of the Hispanic American Community, the Congress, by joint resolution approved September 17, 1968 (82 Stat. 848), authorized and requested the President to issue annually a proclamation designating the week which includes September 15 and 16 as National Hispanic Heritage Week. 
Now, Therefore, L Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning September 11, 1983, as National Hispanic Heritage Week in honor of the Hispanic peoples who have enriched our daily lives, our traditions and our national strength. In this spirit, I ask all of our citizens to reflect on the sense of brotherhood that binds us together as one people. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 25th day of Aug., in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightythree, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventh.
RONALD REAGAN