By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Since its beginning, the American Red Cross has been in the forefront of efforts to provide for the well-being of the American people. Its volunteers and staff have kept that tradition going during this past year. They brought needed relief to hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens who suffered in disasters and spent a record-breaking amount for disaster assistance and preparedness. These dedicated people also implemented programs to improve the health of all Americans through life-style changes, kept our Nation's blood supply strong, and provided morale-building services to the men and women in uniform and their families. 
The American Red Cross was founded in 1881 on the principle of service to others and has been sustained since then by millions of Americans who freely offer their time and talents for the benefit of their fellow citizens. 
The American Red Cross pioneered in disaster relief, public health, assistance to veterans, and in efforts to enhance the spirits of our military services in war and peace. It also initiated the world's largest system for voluntary blood donations. And through Red Cross Youth Services, it helps our Nation's young people to learn the role of leadership and the value of service to others. 
These efforts have been made possible by financial contributions from the public. Without this support, there would not be a Red Cross. It is the goodwill of all of us that perpetuates its efforts and provides such an inspiring example of what the private sector is capable of doing. 
In the years ahead, there will be many opportunities for new endeavors as our Nation's social conditions change. The American Red Cross, as in the past, will respond to such challenges and will persevere in its efforts on behalf of human life and dignity. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, and Honorary Chairman of the American Red Cross, do hereby designate March 1984 as Red Cross Month and urge all Americans to generously support the work of their local Red Cross chapter. 
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this 8th day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightyfour, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.
RONALD REAGAN