By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The United States and the American people have a long and proud tradition of helping those who are in need. In Africa, the needs of refugees cry out for continued attention. So, too, do the needs of the host countries who, despite their own limited resources, have accepted the refugees in the best tradition of humanitarian concern. Their generosity has led them to make great sacrifices. 
We in the United States are mindful of the burdens that are borne by the refugees and their host countries. We are dedicated to the cause of meeting their needs now and in the future. We fervently hope that the Second International Conference on Assistance to Refugees in Africa, which begins July 9, 1984, will lead to a sustained effort by the international community to help African countries effectively cope with the refugee burden. Our own efforts have been and will continue to be in support of the African refugees and their host countries. 
In order to heighten awareness in the United States of the needs of Africa's refugees and the needs of their host countries, the Congress, by HJ. Res. 604, has designated July 9, 1984, as "African Refugees Relief Day" and has requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of that day. 
As we reflect on the situation of refugees and their host countries, I hope Americans will be generous in their support of voluntary agencies that provide relief and development assistance to Africa. Further, I wish special consideration be given to the extraordinary hardships borne by women refugees, their children, and other vulnerable groups. The innocent victims of civil strife and war deserve our special concern. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim July 9, 1984, as African Refugees Relief Day. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 9th day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.
RONALD REAGAN