By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
For more than 700,000 Americans with cerebral palsy, life is a struggle to overcome the challenges posed by brain abnormalities present since very early life, often before birth. As cerebral palsy victims mature, they must confront lack of movement control and, possibly, seizures, loss of hearing, vision, or other senses, or mental or emotional impairment. This year, nearly 7,000 children will be born with cerebral palsy. 
Health care professionals and educators throughout our Nation are making bold strides in helping those affected to deal with this disorder. Through physical rehabilitation and occupational therapy, many cerebral palsy patients are learning to lead happy, productive lives in the mainstream of society. These efforts have been spearheaded by two voluntary health agencies, the United Cerebral Palsy Associations, Inc. and the National Easter Seal Society. 
Investigators supported by the National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke and by voluntary health agencies are developing new drugs and devices to alleviate the symptoms of cerebral palsy. Scientists also are learning how to prevent the disorder, particularly with closely monitored prenatal care to minimize risks to the developing child. With the combined efforts of concerned voluntary and public health agencies, the tragedy of cerebral palsy can be substantially reduced. 
To encourage public recognition of and compassion for the complex problems caused by cerebral palsy, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 309, has designated the month of January 1985 as "National Cerebral Palsy Month" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this month. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of January 1985 as National Cerebral Palsy Month. I call upon all government agencies, health organizations, communications media, and the people of the United States to observe this month with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-seventh day of December, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.
RONALD REAGAN