By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Terrorism poses an insidious challenge to the principles of freedom cherished by peace-loving peoples everywhere. Despicable acts such as the recent attack on Prime Minister Thatcher in England, the bombings of our Marine Amphibious Unit Headquarters, and of our Embassy facilities in Beirut, Lebanon, represent an attempt to strike at the very heart of Western democratic values. In the month of September, 37 attacks were carried out by 13 different terrorist groups affecting the people of 20 nations. 
As a world power, the United States bears global responsibilities from which we must not shrink in the face of cowardly attempts at intimidation. Instead, we must strive to carry forward the heroic legacy of those brave people who, in the search for peace and justice, have lost their lives to international terrorism. Because terrorism poses such a pervasive and insidious threat to all free peoples and claims so many innocent victims in its indiscriminate brutality, we of the Western democracies have embarked on a course of improved cooperation to counter this scourge against humanity. To this end, it is appropriate that we reflect on the tragic loss of life that senseless terror leaves in its wake throughout the world. We do this not out of fear or trepidation, but to show our resolve that the free people of this world will not be deterred from our purpose by threats of terrorism. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 336, has designated October 23, 1984, as "A Time of Remembrance" for all victims of terrorism throughout the world and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 23, 1984, as a Time of Remembrance for all victims of terrorism throughout the world, and I urge all Americans to take time to reflect on the sacrifices that have been made in the pursuit of peace and freedom. 
I further call upon and authorize all departments and agencies of the United States and interested organizations, groups, and individuals to fly United States flags at half-staff on October 23 in the hope that the desire for peace and freedom will take firm root in every person and every nation. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.
RONALD REAGAN