By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Abuse of children occurs in all segments of our society, in rural, suburban, and urban areas and among all racial, ethnic, and income groups. The time has come for Americans to unite in an all-out effort to eradicate child abuse, both physical and sexual, from the Nation. 
Child abuse is a national concern, but it is a community and family problem first, and the answers must be found at the community level. Most physical and emotional violence takes place within the family. All Americans aware of the problem of child abuse must work for an end of this tragedy. 
There is a place for everyone in this effort. By being a good neighbor to the family next door who may be under stress, Americans can be an enormous help. Our schools have an important role to play by educating children about parental roles and responsibilities, values, and appropriate behavior in the family setting. We must do what we can to reverse the trend of abused children becoming abusive parents. In addition, voluntary community self-help groups such as Parents Anonymous are taking positive steps to break this cycle. 
In recognition of the need to find ways to prevent the agony of child abuse from continuing in future generations, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 161, has designated the month of April 1984 as "National Child Abuse Prevention Month" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this period. 
Now, Therefore, L Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of April 1984, as National Child Abuse Prevention Month. We must find a way to leave our future generations a priceless legacy—the confidence and trust resulting from a secure childhood. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this third day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightyfour, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.
RONALD REAGAN