By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Through both its spiritual ideals and its significant practical efforts, the Jewish community has contributed much to our country's greatness. So many of the values and ethics we proudly espouse in America are derived from the laws and traditions of the Jewish people: That there should be one law for the homeborn and the foreigner; that education and self-discipline are to be continually cultivated; and that family and community are the cornerstones of society. And individually—as committed citizens, soldiers in the armed forces, laborers and professionals, artists and entrepreneurs-American Jews have given of their heart, soul and might so that this Nation may prosper. 
Each spring, Jews all over the world celebrate Passover, when the story of the Exodus from Egypt is retold, and the holiday of Shavuot, commemorating the giving of the Law at Mount Sinai. Traditionally, Jews spend that seven-week period between these festivals reflecting on their history and heritage. During this period, American Jews also join with their brethren throughout the world in observance of the National Days of Remembrance, honoring the victims and survivors of the Holocaust, the anniversary of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising, and Solidarity Day for Soviet Jews. Celebration of joyous occasions like Israel's Independence Day also occur at this season. 
In recognition of the special significance of this time of year to America's Jews, in tribute to the important contributions they have made to American life, and in an effort to foster understanding and appreciation of the cultural diversity that has made America such a special and unique society, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 241, has authorized and requested the President to proclaim May 6 through May 13, 1984, as "Jewish Heritage Week." 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim May 6 through May 13, 1984, as Jewish Heritage Week. I call upon the people of the United States, Federal, State and local government officials, and interested organizations to observe that week with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 7th day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.
RONALD REAGAN