By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
May 1, 1984 is Law Day U.S.A., a time to affirm the essential role of the rule of law in the development and preservation of our free society. 
This year's Law Day theme, "Law Makes Freedom Work," captures the essence of our heritage as a Republic. Our unique experience demonstrates that law and freedom must be indivisible partners. For without law, there can be no freedom, only chaos and disorder; and without freedom, law is but a cynical veneer for injustice and oppression. 
The guarantees of freedom embodied in our Constitution and the Bill of Rights are a continuing legacy, enhancing the lives of our citizens and serving as an inspiration to people around the world. One of our Nation's strongest principles is that voluntary adherence to the rule of law expands, rather than limits, the opportunities for freedom. 
For twenty-seven years, we have set aside this day as a time for reflection upon and celebration of the vital bond between liberty and the rule of law that gives life to our national goals and ideals. It is also an opportunity for all Americans to improve their understanding and appreciation of the contribution law makes to the preservation of freedom. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, in accordance with Public Law 87-20 of April 7, 1961, do hereby proclaim Tuesday, May 1, 1984 as Law Day U.S.A. I urge the people of the United States to use this occasion to renew their commitment to the rule of law and to reaffirm our dedication to the partnership of law and liberty. I also urge the legal profession, schools, civic, service and fraternal organizations, public bodies, libraries, the courts, the communications media, business, the clergy, and all interested individuals and organizations to join in efforts to focus attention on the need for the rule of law. I also call upon all public officials to display the flag of the United States on all government buildings open on Law Day, May 1, 1984. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightyfour, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth. 
RONALD REAGAN