By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
One of the greatest strengths of our Nation is the rich mixture of people from various cultural backgrounds, and few groups have contributed more to our Nation than Americans of Hispanic heritage. In many communities across the land, Hispanics are a vital element in fostering America's achievements in the arts and industry, in agriculture and education, in religion and business, in science and politics, and in every other aspect of American life. 
Hispanic Americans were among the first settlers in the New World, some arriving in America long before the United States became an independent Nation. They came in search of a better life for themselves and their children, and they have helped to create a richer life for all of us. 
In our international relations, Hispanic Americans also contribute to our Nation's identity—our own perception of who we are and our role in the world, as well as others' perception of us. The strong family and cultural ties which bind Hispanics in the United States with our nearest neighbors are an important element of the strength of the Western Hemisphere. The freedom of our neighbors is our freedom. Their security is our security. We Americans seek economic progress and justice for mutual benefit throughout the hemisphere, and we look to Americans of Hispanic heritage for leadership as we work together toward these goals. 
In recognition of the many achievements of the Hispanic American Community, the Congress, by Joint Resolution approved September 17, 1968 (Public Law 90-498), authorized and requested the President to issue annually a proclamation designating the week which includes September 15 and 16 as National Hispanic Heritage Week. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning September 10, 1984, as National Hispanic Heritage Week, in recognition of the Hispanic individuals, families, and communities that enrich our national life. I call upon the people of the United States, especially the educational community, to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.
RONALD REAGAN