By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Digestive diseases rank third in the total economic burden of illness in the United States. In terms of human discomfort and pain, mortality, and burden on the Nation's economy, they represent one of our most serious health problems. Digestive diseases account for a yearly expenditure of approximately $17 billion in direct health care costs, and a total economic burden of $50 billion. 
Research into the causes, cures, prevention, and clinical treatment of digestive diseases and related nutrition problems is a national concern. The week of May 20, 1984, marks the first anniversary of the initiation of a national digestive diseases education program. Its goals are to encourage the digestive diseases community to educate the public and other health care practitioners to the seriousness of these diseases and the methods available to prevent, treat, and control them, and to inform the public that diseases of the digestive system are a major health priority. 
In recognition of the important efforts to combat digestive diseases, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 228, has designated the week beginning May 20, 1984, through May 26, 1984, as "National Digestive Diseases Awareness Week," and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation calling for observance of this week. Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of May 20, 1984, through May 26, 1984, as National Digestive Diseases Awareness Week. I urge the people of the United States, and educational, philanthropic, scientific, medical, and health care organizations and professionals to participate in appropriate ceremonies to encourage further research into the causes and cures of all types of digestive disorders so as to alleviate the suffering of their victims. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.
RONALD REAGAN