By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
In 1992, the United States and Spain will host an unprecedented joint world's fair, the Chicago-Seville International Exposition. The exposition will celebrate the 500th anniversary of Christopher Columbus' voyage of discovery from Spain to the Americas and will be the first world's fair to be conducted simultaneously in two countries. 
The theme of the world's fair is the "Age of Discovery." The exposition will showcase the immense social, economic, scientific and cultural achievements which have changed the world since 1492 and will preview the discoveries anticipated in the century to come. The event also will serve to symbolize the indomitable nature of the human spirit which fired Columbus to pursue his dream of a New World and which continues to inspire us as Americans in pursuit of our dream of democracy and freedom. 
Chicago is an excellent site for this historic exposition. A global crossroads, Chicago already has hosted two successful world's fairs—the World's Columbian Exposition of 1893, which became the standard of comparison for subsequent fairs, and a Century of Progress Exposition of 1933-34, which helped lift the spirits of a battered people during the most severe depression in our history. The choice of Seville as a site is especially appropriate, for without the foresight and adventurous spirit of the King and Queen of Spain, Columbus would never have had an opportunity to undertake his catalytic voyage which changed the course of history. 
The unique relationship between this great American city and Seville underlines the continuity of history in a new age of communications and transportation. By bridging the seas in 1992, Chicago and Seville once again will link the New World with the Old in the dawning of a truly new "Age of Discovery." 
The 1992 Chicago-Seville International Exposition thus promises to become a symbol of international peace and process, illuminating our past and our future. With its many splendid opportunities for the stimulation of trade and for cultural and technological exchange, the exposition has the enthusiastic support of the United States Government. This Administration will extend the fullest possible recognition to the event in accordance with the Paris Convention of November 22, 1928, as modified, and United States law. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, in recognition of the 1992 Chicago-Seville International Exposition, do hereby invite the several States of the Union and its Territories to participate in the exposition, and authorize and direct the Secretary of State to invite, on my behalf, such foreign countries as he may consider appropriate to participate in this event. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-seventh day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.
RONALD REAGAN