By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, including Section 204 of the Agricultural Act of 1956, as amended (76 Stat. 104, 7 U.S.C. 1854), and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and in order to prevent circumvention or frustration of multilateral and bilateral agreements to which the United States is a party and to facilitate efficient and equitable administration of the United States Textile Import Program, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. (a) In accordance with policy guidance provided by the Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements (CITA), through its Chairman, in accordance with the provisions of Executive Order No. 11651, as amended, the Secretary of the Treasury shall issue regulations governing the entry or withdrawal from warehouse for consumption of textiles and textile products subject to Section 204 of the Act. 
(b) Initial regulations promulgated under this section shall be promulgated no later than 120 days after the effective date of this order. 
(c) To the extent necessary to implement more effectively the United States textile program under Section 204, such regulations shall include: 
(i) clarifications in, or revisions to, the country of origin rules for textiles and textile products subject to Section 204 in order to avoid circumvention of multilateral and bilateral textile agreements; 
(ii) provisions governing withdrawals from a customs bonded warehouse of articles subject to this Order transformed, changed or manipulated in a warehouse after importation but prior to withdrawal for consumption; and 
(iii) any other provisions determined to be necessary for the effective and equitable administration of the Textile Import Program. 
(d) Any such regulations may also include provisions requiring importers to provide additional information and/or documentation on articles subject to this order which are determined to be necessary for the effective and equitable administration of the Textile Import Program. 
Sec. 2. (a) The Commissioner of Customs shall establish Textile and Apparel Task Force (the Task Force) within the United States Customs Service to coordinate enforcement of regulations concerning importation under the Textile Import Program. 
(b) CITA, through its Chairman, shall, in accordance with the provisions of Executive Order No. 11651, as amended, provide information and recommendations to the Task Force, through the Department of the Treasury, on implementation and administration of the Textile Import Program. 
(c) The Department of Treasury shall, to the extent practicable, inform the Chairman of CITA of the progress of all investigations concerning textile imports; provide notice to CITA of all requests for rulings on matters that could reasonably be expected to affect the implementation of the Textile Import Program; and take into consideration any comments on such requests that CITA, through its Chairman, timely submits. 
Sec. 3. This order supplements, but does not supersede or amend, Executive Order No. 11651 of March 3, 1972, as amended. 
Sec. 4. This order shall be effective upon its publication in the Federal Register.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
May 9, 1984. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:50 a.m., May 10, 1984]