By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The family is the cornerstone of American society. As individuals and as a people, we are nurtured by our families from birth until the ends of our lives. Families link past, present, and future generations. Family members share our joys, comfort us, and help us celebrate life's milestones. 
In our mobile society, great distances often separate people from their loved ones, making frequent visits difficult or impossible. Consequently, many families hold periodic reunions. At these special times, they come together to renew and refresh their relationships. They share the accomplishments and changes in their lives. They honor those who have passed on, and they celebrate their continuing renewal through new marriages and the birth of new babies. 
Unfortunately, thousands of American families experience sorrow each year because of runaway, missing or estranged members. An estimated 700,000 children between the ages of 11 and 18 are runaway or homeless youth. Many organizations have been formed in recent years to help families and missing family members establish contact with each other while respecting the right of individuals to privacy. Nonetheless, this problem is a very serious and heartbreaking one. 
This Nation treasures its families and family life. All Americans should encourage families and missing family members to get in touch with each other and, if possible, to solve the problems which brought about their separation. We should encourage missing family members to make direct contact with their families or to use the organizations which offer their support and assistance. We also should encourage families whose ties are weak to seek out the programs which offer counseling and support to keep families together. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 94, has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation designating the period between Mother's Day, May 13, 1984, and Father's Day, June 17, 1984, as "Family Reunion Month." 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the period between May 13 and June 17, 1984, as Family Reunion Month. I call upon all Americans to celebrate this month with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this 14th day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightyfour, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.
RONALD REAGAN