By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, including section 203 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702) (hereinafter referred to as "the Act"), and 22 U.S.C. 287c,
I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, find that the unrestricted access of foreign parties to United States commercial good, technology, and technical data and the existence of certain boycott practices of foreign nations constitute, in light of the expiration of the Export Administration Act of 1979, an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy and economy of the United States and hereby declare a national economic emergency to deal with that threat. 
Accordingly, in order (a) to exercise the necessary vigilance over exports from the standpoint of their significance to the national security of the United States; (b) to further significantly the foreign policy of the United States, including its policy with respect to cooperation by United States persons with certain foreign boycott activities, and to fulfill its international responsibilities; and (c) to protect the domestic economy from the excessive drain of scarce materials and reduce the serious economic impact of foreign demand, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Notwithstanding the expiration of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 2401 et seq.), the provisions of that Act, the provisions for administration of that Act and the delegations of authority set forth in Executive Order No. 12002 of July 7, 1977 and Executive Order No. 12214 of May 2, 1980, shall, to the extent permitted by law, be incorporated in this Order and shall continue in full force and effect. 
Sec. 2. All rules and regulations issued or continued in effect by the Secretary of Commerce under the authority of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended, including those published in Title 15, Chapter III, Subchapter C, of the Code of Federal Regulations, Parts 368 to 399 inclusive, and all orders, regulations, licenses and other forms of administrative action issued, taken or continued in effect pursuant thereto, shall, until amended or revoked by the Secretary of Commerce, remain in full force and effect, the same as if issued or taken pursuant to this Order, except that the provisions of sections 203(b)(2) and 206 of the Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2) and 1705) shall control over any inconsistent provisions in the regulations with respect to, respectively, certain donations to relieve human suffering and civil and criminal penalties for violations subject to this Order. Nothing in this section shall affect the continued applicability of administrative sanctions provided for by the regulations described above. 
Sec. 3. Provisions for the administration of section 38(e) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778(e)) may be made and shall continue in full force and effect until amended or revoked under the authority of section 203 of the Act (50 U.S.C. 1702). To the extent permitted by law, this Order also shall constitute authority for the issuance and continuation in full force and effect of all rules and regulations by the President or his delegate, and all orders, licenses, and other forms of administrative action issued, taken or continued in effect pursuant thereto, relating to the administration of section 38(e). 
Sec. 4. This Order shall be effective as of midnight between March 30 and March 31, 1984, and shall remain in effect until terminated. It is my intention to terminate this Order upon the enactment into law of a bill reauthorizing the authorities contained in the Export Administration Act.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
March 30, 1984. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 3:07 p.m., March 30, 1984]