By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
1. Section 212 of the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act (the Act) (19 U.S.C. 2702) authorizes the President to designate certain countries and territories or successor political entities as "beneficiary countries" under the Act. In Proclamation 5133 of November 30, 1983, and Proclamation 5142 of December 29, 1983, I have designated 20 countries and territories as "beneficiary countries." I am now adding the Bahamas to the list of "beneficiary countries." I have notified the House of Representatives and the Senate of my intention to designate this country and given the considerations entering into my decision. 
2. In order to add this country to the list of beneficiary countries, I am amending the Annex to Proclamation 5133. 
3. Section 213(a)(2) of the Act directs the Secretary of the Treasury to prescribe regulations implementing the provisions of the Act relating to articles eligible for duty-free treatment. Section 213(a)(2) also sets out certain specific provisions that Congress sought to have included in the eventual amendments to the Tariff Schedules of the United States. Proclamation 5133 is to be amended in order to bring the language of its Annex into direct conformity with the express intent of the Congress and to eliminate language no longer applicable to the duty-free entry of eligible articles by virtue of recent amendments to the implementing regulations. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, acting under the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes of the United States, including but not limited to Section 212 of the Act, do proclaim that: 
(1) The list of countries in the Annex to Proclamation 5133 of November 30, 1983, is hereby amended by adding the Bahamas. 
(2) The Annex to Proclamation 5133 is further amended to strike the phrase "manufacturer or exporter of the article accompanied by an endorsement thereof by the importer or consignee" in Paragraph A of the Annex amending language in general headnote 3(g)(ii)(B) of the Tariff Schedules of the United States and to replace it with the phrase "appropriate party." 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 14th day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.
RONALD REAGAN