By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The United States' weather satellites have tracked the Earth's weather since April 1, 1960, and have brought unique benefits to the American people and to the world. 
Weather satellites have proven exceptionally valuable in detecting, monitoring, and giving early warning of hurricanes, severe storms, flash floods, and other life-threatening natural hazards, on a local, national, and international basis. 
The international weather satellite search-and-rescue program has saved over three hundred lives since 1982. The achievements of the scientific and aerospace communities in developing weather satellites have contributed significantly to the United States' leadership in satellite technology, international cooperation in space, and an integrated global weather forecasting system. 
Weather satellites have evolved into environmental satellites that also monitor snow and ice cover, forest damage, vegetation, forest fires, volcanic eruptions, sea surface temperatures, and ocean currents. 
Environmental satellite data are used for research and for commercial purposes in meteorology, hydrology, agriculture, oceanography, forestry, and fisheries. The United States' prestige is enhanced by the direct dissemination of environmental satellite data to more than one hundred and twenty countries. 
The National Aeronautics and Space Administration has been the world leader in the development of experimental and prototypical weather and environmental satellites. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration of the Department of Commerce has demonstrated outstanding leadership in the management of operational weather and environmental satellite systems and programs. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 62, has designated the week of March 31, 1985 through April 6, 1985, as "National Weather Satellite Week," and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning March 31, 1985 through April 6, 1985, as National Weather Satellite Week. In recognition of the twenty-fifth anniversary of weather satellites, I call upon the people of the United States to observe such week with appropriate ceremonies. 
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this 4th day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.
RONALD REAGAN