By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Americans increasingly look to the water for recreation and relaxation. This year, approximately one-quarter of us will enjoy boating in one or more of its many and varied forms. Therefore, it is important that all those involved in recreational boating observe proper safety practices, know and obey rules of safe boating, and show courtesy and consideration on the water. 
In addition, all boaters should wear personal flotation devices while on the water. According to the United States Coast Guard, seventy-five percent of those who died in boating accidents last year might have been saved had they worn these devices. 
The theme of this year's National Safe Boating Week emphasizes the dangers of combining alcohol consumption with operating a boat. The use of alcohol and other intoxicating substances is a major factor in boating accidents and fatalities. Boat operators who drink often cannot react promptly to hazards and thereby endanger not only themselves but also others on the water. 
The use of even small amounts of alcohol can significantly impair an operator's judgment and boat-handling skills. This is particularly true as fatigue caused by sun, glare, noise, wind, and boat motion intensifies the effects of alcohol. Through the observance of National Safe Boating Week, 1985, all Americans should be alerted to these dangers. 
In recognition of the need for boating safety, the Congress, by joint resolution approved June 4, 1958, as amended (36 U.S.C. 161), authorized and requested the President to proclaim annually the week commencing on the first Sunday in June as National Safe Boating Week. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning June 2, 1985, as National Safe Boating Week. I invite the Governors of the States, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa, and the Mayor of the District of Columbia to provide for the observance of this week. 
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.
RONALD REAGAN