By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Fire controlled is one of man's greatest friends; unchecked, it is our deadly enemy. Each year, millions of fires kill thousands of Americans and destroy billions of dollars of property. 
Carelessness and apathy are fire's greatest allies. But an informed public aware of fire hazards and ways to prevent and combat fire can bring the problem under control. Thanks to the efforts in both the public and private sectors, our annual fire loss has been declining in recent years. But we must not become complacent. We must build on the progress that has been made. 
I urge every American to join the fight against fire. During Fire Prevention Week, communities should begin initiatives for fire prevention and control that can be implemented throughout the year. I encourage all citizens to join in local efforts to marshal the forces of the entire community—local government, the fire service, business leaders, civic organizations, and service groups—to redouble their efforts to prevent and control fire and minimize its toll of life and property. 
One place we can all start is with this year's Fire Prevention Week theme, "Fire Drills Save Lives." Everyone should plan ahead noting the most convenient fire exits. Families should install and maintain smoke detectors in their homes to provide early warning of fire. Your local fire fighters can provide you with more detailed recommendations and will be happy to do so. And let us not forget to thank them for the great job they do to protect us, our homes, our businesses, and our belongings. Daily they risk their lives to protect our communities. It is most fitting that the culmination of National Fire Prevention Week will be the observance of the National Fallen Firefighter Memorial Service in Emmitsburg, Maryland. The observance will honor the scores of brave firefighters who last year gave their lives in service to others. 
We also must recognize and commend the efforts of all organizations concerned with fire prevention and control, and in particular the National Fire Protection Association, the International Association of Firefighters, the International Association of Fire Chiefs, the National Volunteer Fire Council, the International Society of Fire Service Instructors, the Fire Marshals Association of North America, and all the members of the Joint Council of National Fire Service Organizations. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of October 6, 1985, as Fire Prevention Week, and I call upon the people of the United States to plan and actively participate in fire prevention activities during this week and throughout the year. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and tenth.
RONALD REAGAN