By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory committee on private sector initiatives, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the Presidential Board of Advisors on Private Sector Initiatives. The Board shall be composed of not more than 30 members, to be appointed or designated by the President. 
(b) The President shall designate a Chairman and Vice Chairman from among the members of the Board. The Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of Private Sector Initiatives shall serve as Secretary to the Board. 
Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Board shall advise the President and the Secretary of Commerce, through the White House Office of Private Sector Initiatives, with respect to the objectives and conduct of private sector initiative policies, including methods of increasing public awareness of the importance of public/private partnerships; removing barriers to development of effective social service programs which are administered by private organizations; strengthening the professional resources of the private social service sector; and studying options for promoting the long-term development of private sector initiatives in the United States. 
(b) The Board shall seek the advice, ideas, and recommendations of the White House Office of Private Sector Initiatives and such other government offices as the President may deem appropriate in order to fulfill its responsibilities under this Order. 
(c) In performance of its advisory responsibilities, the Board shall report to the President from time to time as requested. 
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Board such information with respect to private sector initiative issues and such other support as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions. 
(b) Members of the Board shall serve without compensation for their work on the Board. However, members appointed from among private citizens of the United States shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707). 
(c) The Department of Commerce shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide the Board with such administrative services, funds, and other support services as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions. 
Sec. 4. General. (a) The Board shall terminate two years from the date of this Order, unless sooner extended.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
August 8, 1985. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 2:44 p.m., August 8, 1985]