By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Americans have always cared for one another in both good times and bad. When a family has a loved one—elderly, disabled, or a child—needing special care at home, it will inevitably respond by doing everything to keep that person at home. This is the American spirit. Home health care has a long tradition in our Nation. The Federal government, the States, and families are now working in a cooperative way to see that this commitment continues. 
No one would suggest that a family can do more for a patient when a hospital or other appropriate institution is clearly needed. But American families go the extra step or mile, if needed, to protect, care for, and serve a member in need. The Federal government has done its share to help. Now, our many States have taken on the initiative to create special programs to enhance home health care. They are to be commended for this humane action. 
In addition, there are countless churches, voluntary organizations, and private agencies that assist our families to care for a member at home. Our Nation is learning that, in spite of a time when "doing your own thing" is in, caring for a mother, father, sister, or brother—or any relative or friend—in the home is vastly more important. Independence, under God's loving care and guidance, is to be cherished. Who, then, should care for our own than those who love them best? Once again our long tradition prevails as so many in government, charitable groups, and families work for the well-being of one in need at home. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 139, has designated the week beginning December 1, 1985, as "National Home Care Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning December 1, 1985, as National Home Care Week. I call upon the people of the United States to observe the week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this third day of December, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and tenth.
RONALD REAGAN