By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The manufacturing industries in the United States have been a major factor in creating a high standard of living for all Americans. These industries now generate and ship more than $1 trillion of our annual gross national product. 
Our manufacturing industries have done a magnificent job of meeting the needs of consumers and of the Nation and its allies, and they continue to do so. Those industries have demonstrated their ability to remain competitive in the emerging world marketplace. 
American manufacturers are adapting to new economic circumstances by increasing their efficiency, their productivity, and their price-competitiveness. They have retained their share of the gross national product in a dynamic and changing national economy. 
It is the policy of this Administration to ensure the right of all American industries to compete fairly in world markets by vigorously enforcing our trading rights worldwide. I am convinced that in an environment of free and fair trade, our manufacturing industries can meet any foreign competitors in price, quality, and reliability. 
In recognition of the many accomplishments of our manufacturing industries, their critical role in our economy, and the many contributions of their employees to our national life, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 346, has designated June 21, 1986 as "National Save American Industry and Jobs Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this occasion. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim June 21, 1986 as National Save American Industry and Jobs Day, and I invite the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and tenth.
RONALD REAGAN