By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
People all across America are becoming increasingly aware of the terrible dangers of drug abuse. Permissive attitudes about drug use have been replaced by deepening concern and—what is more important—action. People of all ages and from all walks of life are rallying against this terrible scourge. Many young people are taking a leading role in the effort to help other young people from "getting hooked," and in assisting addicts to break the chains of their addiction. 
Although young people are exposed to far too many opportunities to experiment with drugs, an ever-increasing number are saying no to drugs and to alcohol. They are joining together to learn how, and to make it stick. They are forming "JUST SAY NO" clubs to help them resist temptation and to encourage their peers to stay drug-free. On May 22, many thousands of children and teenagers will Walk Against Drugs to encourage others to join them in saying "No" to drugs. 
These young people of America are demonstrating that healthy and productive lives are possible when you "Just Say No." Many other children of the world share this commitment to put a stop to drug abuse; in Great Britain, Canada, Ireland, Costa Rica, and Sweden, children are actively pursuing this same idea—JUST SAY NO! 
We, as adults, owe a debt of gratitude to our children for setting such a fine example; for leading the way to a better future for future generations. I congratulate our young people for their courage and zeal in this crusade. I challenge the adults of the world to encourage and support them, and to follow their lead in saying "No" to drugs. I am confident that, working together, we will conquer drug abuse. 
To recognize those American young people who are publicly fighting drug abuse by saying "No" to drugs and thereby contributing to the end of this plague in America, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 337, has designated the week beginning May 18, 1986, as "Just Say No To Drugs Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of May 18 through May 24, 1986, as "Just Say No To Drugs Week." I ask each person to make a personal commitment to saying "No" to drug and alcohol abuse; and I call on all Americans to join me in observing this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 20th day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and tenth.
RONALD REAGAN