By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Osteoporosis, a degenerative bone disease, affects 15 to 20 million Americans, mostly women, and takes a terrible human toll of pain, impaired mobility, and disruption of daily activities. Its victims lose their independence, and their families share in the heartache. 
Often called a silent disease, osteoporosis may begin and then progress without any warning signs. Bone mass decreases, causing bones to be more susceptible to fracture. Each year more than 1.3 million Americans over 45 years of age suffer bone fractures as a result of this malady. Fractures of the spine, hips, and wrist are the most common, although any of the bones may be affected. 
As the number of elderly persons increases, so will the magnitude of the problem. However, we now know that osteoporosis may not be an inevitable part of aging. New research findings and new approaches to prevention, diagnosis, and treatment are being developed to eliminate osteoporosis as a cause of human suffering. Working together, the Federal government and private voluntary organizations have developed a strong and enduring partnership in osteoporosis research. I am confident we will uncover the cause and cure of this major public health problem and promote measures to prevent or delay its occurrence. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 285, has designated the week beginning May 11 through May 17, 1986, as "National Osteoporosis Awareness Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim May 11 through May 17, 1986, as National Osteoporosis Awareness Week, and I urge the people of the United States and educational, philanthropic, scientific, medical, and health care organizations and professionals to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and tenth.
RONALD REAGAN