By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Truck and bus safety is important to all Americans. More than 5 million trucks travel more than 135 billion miles each year on our highways transporting raw materials, finished goods, food, and other essential products and services. Buses annually carry millions of Americans to over 10,000 cities and communities. Clearly, the safe maintenance and operation of trucks and buses is vital to the health and safety of all users of our Nation's thoroughfares.
The truck and bus industry is a major employer in our country, essential to the Nation and to the smooth and safe flow of commerce. The safe operation of trucks and buses is of great consequence to the motoring public with which they share the roads. Safety compliance not only saves lives, it is also sound business practice. It reflects well on the industry and enhances profitability. 
Ultimately, the most important means to improve safe operation are those activities undertaken by the truck and bus industry itself. Therefore, I challenge each and every person, business, and association involved in the industry to make a commitment to encourage safe truck and bus operations. I am convinced that such an effort will reward everyone. The industry must also inform the public that safety is one of its highest priorities. 
January is a particularly appropriate time to direct the Nation's attention to special care in the operation of vehicles on the highways, because of ice and snow conditions in many parts of the country. Observance of this week should help to establish an increased safety consciousness throughout the entire year. 
I call upon our State governments to increase their efforts to improve safety compliance, using their own resources as well as funds provided by the Federal government. I call upon industry, labor, and the professional drivers of the country to continue to improve the safe operation of trucks and buses. Very special care must be exercised in seeing to the safe maintenance and operation of trucks carrying extremely hazardous materials.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 235, has designated the week beginning January 26, 1986 as "Truck and Bus Safety Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of January 26 through February 1, 1986, as Truck and Bus Safety Week, and I call upon all Americans to observe this week with appropriate activities and informational programs. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of January, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and tenth.
RONALD REAGAN