By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Fire is most often preventable, but this past year it killed almost 6,000 Americans, injured 300,000, and caused more than $9.5 billion in direct property losses. Fire often affects the very young and the very old, and more than 80 percent of fires take place in the home. Such facts are exactly why our Nation observes a special week every autumn to remind ourselves that fire prevention and safety messages are vitally important to each of us and to our families. 
This year the National Fire Protection Association, the originator of Fire Prevention Week, is encouraging families to be safe and to design and practice a home fire escape plan. Private sector initiatives in partnership with the public sector are complementing this effort. All who can should join with government officials at every level, fire service personnel, citizens' groups, and private citizens to develop and carry out public awareness and education programs about fires. Campaigns being formulated will reach high-risk populations, including inner city and rural residents, children , and the elderly. 
On Sunday, October 11, 1987, at the National Fallen Fire Fighters Memorial Service at the National Fire Academy in Emmitsburg, Maryland, the tribute of a proud and grateful Nation will be paid to the 114 American fire fighters who died in the line of duty in 1986. Let us honor these heroes in prayerful remembrance. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week beginning October 4, 1987, as Fire Prevention Week, and I call upon the people of the United States to plan and actively participate in fire prevention activities during this week and throughout the year. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twelfth.
RONALD REAGAN