By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Spring is a season of promise and renewal, and nothing could be more fitting during this time than to reflect on God's abundant miracles of life and growth. 
Organ and tissue donorship presents an opportunity to share in these miracles. Medical technology has made it possible for thousands of Americans to benefit from organ and tissue transplantation. Sometimes this means restored vision or help for severe burns; sometimes, a heart, liver, or bone marrow transplant. But whatever the case, organ and tissue donorship shows the magnificent generosity of the American people. 
More and more Americans are aware of organ and tissue donorship, thanks to much education about this worthy cause. The American Council on Transplantation has promoted organ and tissue donorship diligently for the last 4 years. Others, such as the National Kidney Foundation, the Lions Club, the Children's Transplant Association, and the Boy Scouts of America, have joined in the effort. 
The results are most encouraging. Millions of Americans now carry organ and tissue donor cards. Many States give people the opportunity to sign donor cards when they complete their driver's license forms. Our schools and our media have also become involved in this cause. 
But it is each American family and each citizen who makes organ and tissue donorship work. The generosity of organ and tissue donation is a very private matter between individuals and God, the giver of life. So, as all of us rejoice this springtime on the hope and promise of life, let us also think about signing organ and tissue donor cards. We keep that promise alive by helping others in need. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 89, has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation observing the week of April 26 through May 2, 1987, as "National Organ and Tissue Donor Awareness Week". 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of April 26 through May 2, 1987, as National Organ and Tissue Donor Awareness Week. I ask health care professionals, educators, the media, public and private service organizations, and all Americans to join in supporting this humanitarian cause. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eleventh.
RONALD REAGAN