By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
1. On October 27, 1982, by Proclamation No. 4991, I suspended the application of column 1 rates of duty of the Tariff Schedules of the United States (TSUS) to the products of Poland. This followed from my determination that the Government of the Polish People's Republic had failed to meet certain import commitments under its Protocol of Accession to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (19 UST 4331), and that the Polish martial law government had increased its repression of the Polish people, leaving the United States without any reason to continue withholding action on its trade complaints against Poland. 
2. Since issuance of that Proclamation, the Polish Government has taken steps that lead me to believe that Poland should be given a renewed opportunity to address its trade obligations with the benefit of most-favored-nation tariff treatment. 
3. The President may, pursuant to his constitutional and statutory authority, including Section 125(b) of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, terminate in whole or in part Proclamation No. 4991. 
4. I have determined in this case that the national interest requires expeditious action. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes of the United States, including, but not limited to, the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, and the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, do hereby proclaim as follows: 
1. Proclamation No. 4991 of October 27, 1982, is hereby revoked. 
2. General Headnote 3(d) of the TSUS is modified: 
(a) by deleting "or pursuant to Presidential Proclamation No. 4991, dated October 27, 1982" and 
(b) by deleting "Polish People's Republic" from the list of countries therein. 
3. This Proclamation shall take effect with respect to articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after the date of publication of this Proclamation in the Federal Register. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 19th day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eleventh.
RONALD REAGAN