By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
In recent years, the American people have begun to work together and make significant progress against the intolerable effects of illegal drugs on our way of life. The possibility of realizing our dream of a drugfree generation of American youth took a giant step forward when young people started to join together and organize around the battle cry of JUST SAY NO TO DRUGS. 
Today, Just Say No Clubs are setting a new standard of leadership with young people who want to be drug-free. The clubs are an expression of the concerns and the responsibility of young Americans—a positive, constructive step against the tyranny of drugs in schools and communities. The demand to be drug-free is one all of us should heed in our homes and workplaces; our Nation has a commitment to the safety and well-being of young people, and much remains to be done if we are to have a drug-free society that refuses to tolerate the presence and use of illegal drugs. The heritage and the promise of America bid all of us to live up to our responsibility to say no to illegal drugs and alcohol abuse. 
I salute the young people who demonstrate their common sense by saying no to drugs and who exhibit leadership by encouraging their friends to do the same. I urge every American to support and emulate the commendable actions of these young people who give us the hope that our next generation may be drug-free. 
To recognize the contributions of these young Americans, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 124, has designated the week of May 10 through May 16, 1987, as "Just Say No to Drugs Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of May 10 through May 16, 1987, as Just Say No to Drugs Week. I call upon officials at every level of government, civic groups, the clergy, educators, the media, and all citizens to support our youth in observing this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. I also ask all Americans to make a personal commitment to Just Say No to illegal drugs and alcohol abuse as they participate in activities during this week. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 12th day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightyseven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eleventh.
RONALD REAGAN