By the authority vested in me as President of the United States of America by Section 115 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (42 U.S.C. 9615 et seq.) ("the Act"), and by Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. National Contingency Plan. (a)(1) The National Contingency Plan ("the NCP"), shall provide for a National Response Team ("the NRT") composed of representatives of appropriate Federal departments and agencies for national planning and coordination of preparedness and response actions, and regional response teams as the regional counterpart to the NRT for planning and coordination of regional preparedness and response actions. 
(2) The following agencies (in addition to other appropriate agencies) shall provide representatives to the National and Regional Response Teams to carry out their responsibilities under the NCP: Department of State, Department of Defense, Department of Justice, Department of the Interior, Department of Agriculture, Department of Commerce, Department of Labor, Department of Health and Human Services, Department of Transportation, Department of Energy, Environmental Protection Agency, Federal Emergency Management Agency, United States Coast Guard, and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 
(3) Except for periods of activation because of a response action, the representative of the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") shall be the chairman and the representative of the United States Coast Guard shall be the vice chairman of the NRT and these agencies' representatives shall be co-chairs of the Regional Response Teams ("the RRTs"). When the NRT or an RRT is activated for a response action, the chairman shall be the EPA or United States Coast Guard representative, based on whether the release or threatened release occurs in the inland or coastal zone, unless otherwise agreed upon by the EPA and United States Coast Guard representatives. 
(4) The RRTs may include representatives from State governments, local governments (as agreed upon by the States), and Indian tribal governments. Subject to the functions and authorities delegated to Executive departments and agencies in other sections of this Order, the NRT shall provide policy and program direction to the RRTs. 
(b)(1) The responsibility for the revision of the NCP and all of the other functions vested in the President by Sections 105(a), (b), (c), and (g), 125, and 301(f) of the Act is delegated to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency ("the Administrator"). 
(2) The function vested in the President by Section 118(p) of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-499) ("SARA") is delegated to the Administrator. 
(c) In accord with Section 107(f)(2)(A) of the Act and Section 311(f)(5) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1321(0(5)), the following shall be among those designated in the NCP as Federal trustees for natural resources:
(1) Secretary of Defense;
(2) Secretary of the Interior;
(3) Secretary of Agriculture;
(4) Secretary of Commerce;
(5) Secretary of Energy. 
(d) Revisions to the NCP shall be made in consultation with members of the NRT prior to publication for notice and comment. Revisions shall also be made in consultation with the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in order to avoid inconsistent or duplicative requirements in the emergency planning responsibilities of those agencies. 
(e) All revisions to the NCP, whether in proposed or final form, shall be subject to review and approval by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget ("OMB"). 
Sec. 2. Response and Related Authorities. (a) The functions vested in the President by the first sentence of Section 104(b)(1) of the Act relating to "illness, disease, or complaints thereof' are delegated to the Secretary of Health and Human Services who shall, in accord with Section 104(i) of the Act, perform those functions through the Public Health Service. 
(b) The functions vested in the President by Sections 104(e)(7)(C), 113(k)(2), 119(c)(7), and 121(f)(1) of the Act, relating to promulgation of regulations and guidelines, are delegated to the Administrator, to be exercised in consultation with the NRT. 
(c)(1) The functions vested in the President by Sections 104(a) and the second sentence of 126(b) of the Act, to the extent they require permanent relocation of residents, businesses, and community facilities or temporary evacuation and housing of threatened individuals not otherwise provided for, are delegated to the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. 
(2) Subject to subsection (b) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Sections 117(a) and (c), and 119 of the Act, to the extent such authority is needed to carry out the functions delegated under paragraph (1)of this subsection, are delegated to the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. 
(d) Subject to subsections (a), (b) and (c) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Sections 104(a), (b) and (c)(4), 113(k), 117(a) and (c), 119, and 121 of the Act are delegated to the Secretaries of Defense and Energy, with respect to releases or threatened releases where either the release is on or the sole source of the release is from any facility or vessel under the jurisdiction, custody or control of their departments, respectively, including vessels bare-boat chartered and operated. These functions must be exercised consistent with the requirements of Section 120 of the Act. 
(e)(1) Subject to subsections (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Sections 104(a), (b), and (c)(4), and 121 of the Act are delegated to the heads of Executive departments and agencies, with respect to remedial actions for releases or threatened releases which are not on the National Priorities List ("the NPL") and removal actions other than emergencies, where either the release is on or the sole source of the release is from any facility or vessel under the jurisdiction, custody or control of those departments and agencies, including vessels bare-boat chartered and operated. The Administrator shall define the term "emergency", solely for the purposes of this subsection, either by regulation or by a memorandum of understanding with the head of an Executive department or agency. 
(2) Subject to subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Sections 104(b)(2), 113(k), 117(a) and (c), and 119 of the Act are delegated to the heads of Executive departments and agencies, with respect to releases or threatened releases where either the release is on or the sole source of the release is from any facility or vessel under the jurisdiction, custody or control of those departments and agencies, including vessels bare-boat chartered and operated. 
(f) Subject to subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Sections 104(a), (b) and (c)(4), 113(k), 117(a) and (c), 119, and 121 of the Act are delegated to the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating ("the Coast Guard"), with respect to any release or threatened release involving the coastal zone, Great Lakes waters, ports, and harbors. 
(g) Subject to subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Sections 101(24), 104(a), (b), (c)(4) and (c)(9), 113(k), 117(a) and (c), 119, 121, and 126(b) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator. The Administrator's authority under Section 119 of the Act is retroactive to the date of enactment of SARA. 
(h) The functions vested in the President by Section 104(c)(3) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator, with respect to providing assurances for Indian tribes, to be exercised in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior. 
(i) Subject to subsections (d), (e), (f), (g) and (h) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Section 104(c) and (d) of the Act are delegated to the Coast Guard, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and the Administrator in order to carry out the functions delegated to them by this Section. 
(j)(1) The functions vested in the President by Section 104(e)(5)(A) are delegated to the heads of Executive departments and agencies, with respect to releases or threatened releases where either the release is on or the sole source of the release is from any facility or vessel under the jurisdiction, custody or control of those departments and agencies, to be exercised with the concurrence of the Attorney General.
(2) Subject to subsection (b) of this Section and paragraph (1) of this subsection, the functions vested in the President by Section 104(e) are delegated to the heads of Executive departments and agencies in order to carry out their functions under this Order or the Act. 
(k) The functions vested in the President by Sections 104(f), (g), (h), (i)(11), and (j) of the Act are delegated to the heads of Executive departments and agencies in order to carry out the functions delegated to them by this Section. The exercise of authority under Section 104(h) of the Act shall be subject to the approval of the Administrator of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy. 
Sec. 3. Cleanup Schedules. (a) The functions vested in the President by Sections 116(a) and the first two sentences of 105(d) of the Act are delegated to the heads of Executive departments and agencies with respect to facilities under the jurisdiction, custody or control of those departments and agencies. 
(b) Subject to subsection (a) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Sections 116 and 105(d) are delegated to the Administrator. 
Sec. 4. Enforcement. (a) The functions vested in the President by Sections 109(d) and 122(e) (3) (A) of the Act, relating to development of regulations and guidelines, are delegated to the Administrator, to be exercised in consultation with the Attorney General. 
(b)(1) Subject to subsection (a) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Section 122 (except subsection (b)(1)) are delegated to the heads of Executive departments and agencies, with respect to releases or threatened releases not on the NPL where either the release is on or the sole source of the release is from any facility under the jurisdiction, custody or control of those Executive departments and agencies. These functions may be exercised only with the concurrence of the Attorney General. 
(2) Subject to subsection (a) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Section 109 of the Act, relating to violations of Section 122 of the Act, are delegated to the heads of Executive departments and agencies, with respect to releases or threatened releases not on the NPL where either the release is on or the sole source of the release is from any facility under the jurisdiction, custody or control of those Executive departments and agencies. These functions may be exercised only with the concurrence of the Attorney General. 
(c)(1) Subject to subsection (a) and (b)(1) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Sections 106(a) and 122 of the Act are delegated to the Coast Guard with respect to any release or threatened release involving the coastal zone, Great Lakes waters, ports, and harbors. 
(2) Subject to subsection (a) and (b)(2) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Section 109 of the Act, relating to violations of Sections 103(a) and (b), and 122 of the Act, are delegated to the Coast Guard with respect to any release or threatened release involving the coastal zone, Great Lakes waters, ports, and harbors. 
(d)(1) Subject to subsections (a), (b)(1), and (c)(1) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Sections 106 and 122 of the Act are delegated to the Administrator. 
(2) Subject to subsections (a), (b)(2), and (c)(2) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Section 109 of the Act, relating to violations of Sections 103 and 122 of the Act, are delegated to the Administrator. 
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Order, the authority under Sections 104(e)(5)(A) and 106(a) of the Act to seek information, entry, inspection, samples, or response actions from Executive departments and agencies may be exercised only with the concurrence of the Attorney General. 
Sec. 5. Liability. (a) The function vested in the President by Section 107(c)(1)(c) of the Act is delegated to the Secretary of Transportation. 
(b) The functions vested in the President by Section 107(c)(3) of the Act are delegated to the Coast Guard with respect to any release or threatened release involving the coastal zone, Great Lakes waters, ports, and harbors. 
(c) Subject to subsection (b) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Section 107(c)(3) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator. 
(d) The functions vested in the President by Section 107(f)(1) of the Act are delegated to each of the Federal trustees for natural resources designated in the NCP for resources under their trusteeship. 
(e) The functions vested in the President by Section 107(f)(2)(B) of the Act, to receive notification of the state natural resource trustee designations, are delegated to the Administrator. 
Sec. 6. Litigation. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Order, any representation pursuant to or under this Order in any judicial proceeding shall be by or through the Attorney General. The conduct and control of all litigation arising under the Act shall be the responsibility of the Attorney General. 
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Order, the authority under the Act to require the Attorney General to commence litigation is retained by the President. 
(c) The functions vested in the President by Section 113(g) of the Act, to receive notification of a natural resource trustee's intent to file suit, are delegated to the heads of Executive departments and agencies with respect to response actions for which they have been delegated authority under Section 2 of this Order. The Administrator shall promulgate procedural regulations for providing such notification. 
(d) The functions vested in the President by Sections 310 (d) and (e) of the Act, relating to promulgation of regulations, are delegated to the Administrator. 
Sec. 7. Financial Responsibility. (a) The functions vested in the President by Section 107(k)(4)(B) of the Act are delegated to the Secretary of the Treasury. The Administrator will provide the Secretary with such technical information and assistance as the Administrator may have available. 
(b)(1) The functions vested in the President by Section 108(a)(1) of the Act are delegated to the Coast Guard. 
(2) Subject to Section 4(a) of this Order, the functions vested in the President by Section 109 of the Act, relating to violations of Section 108(a)(1) of the Act, are delegated to the Coast Guard.
(c)(1) The functions vested in the President by Section 108(b) of the Act are delegated to the Secretary of Transportation with respect to all transportation related facilities, including any pipeline, motor vehicle, rolling stock, or aircraft. 
(2) Subject to Section 4(a) of this Order, the functions vested in the President by Section 109 of the Act, relating to violations of Section 108(a)(3) of the Act, are delegated to the Secretary of Transportation. 
(3) Subject to Section 4(a) of this Order, the functions vested in the President by Section 109 of the Act, relating to violations of Section 108(b) of the Act, are delegated to the Secretary of Transportation with respect to all transportation related facilities, including any pipeline, motor vehicle, rolling stock, or aircraft. 
(d)(1) Subject to subsection (c)(1) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Section 108(a)(4) and (b) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator. 
(2) Subject to Section 4(a) of this Order and subsection (c)(3) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Section 109 of the Act, relating to violations of Section 108(a)(4) and (b) of the Act, are delegated to the Administrator. 
Sec. 8. Employee Protection and Notice to Injured. (a) The functions vested in the President by Section 110(e) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator. 
(b) The functions vested in the President by Section 111(g) of the Act are delegated to the Secretaries of Defense and Energy with respect to releases from facilities or vessels under the jurisdiction, custody or control of their departments, respectively, including vessels bare-boat chartered and operated. 
(c) Subject to subsection (b) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Section 111(g) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator. 
Sec. 9. Management of the Hazardous Substance Superfund and Claims. (a) The functions vested in the President by Section 111(a) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator, subject to the provisions of this Section and other applicable provisions of this Order. 
(b) The Administrator shall transfer to other agencies, from the Hazardous Substance Superfund out of sums appropriated, such amounts as the Administrator may determine necessary to carry out the purposes of the Act. These amounts shall be consistent with the President's Budget, within the total approved by the Congress, unless a revised amount is approved by OMB. Funds appropriated specifically for the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry ("ATSDR"), shall be directly transferred to ATSDR, consistent with fiscally responsible investment of trust fund money. 
(c) The Administrator shall chair a budget task force composed of representatives of Executive departments and agencies having responsibilities under this Order or the Act. The Administrator shall also, as part of the budget request for the Environmental Protection Agency, submit to OMB a budget for the Hazardous Substance Superfund which is based on recommended levels developed by the budget task force. The Administrator may prescribe reporting and other forms, procedures, and guidelines to be used by the agencies of the Task Force in preparing the budget request, consistent with budgetary reporting requirements issued by OMB. The Administrator shall prescribe forms to agency task force members for reporting the expenditure of funds on a site specific basis. 
(d) The Administrator and each department and agency head to whom funds are provided pursuant to this Section, with respect to funds provided to them, are authorized in accordance with Section 111(t) of the Act to designate Federal officials who may obligate such funds. 
(e) The functions vested in the President by Section 112 of the Act are delegated to the Administrator for all claims presented pursuant to Section 111 of the Act. 
(f) The functions vested in the President by Section 111(o) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator. 
(g) The functions vested in the President by Section 117(e) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator, to be exercised in consultation with the Attorney General. 
(h) The functions vested in the President by Section 123 of the Act are delegated to the Administrator. 
(i) Funds from the Hazardous Substance Superfund may be used, at the discretion of the Administrator or the Coast Guard, to pay for removal actions for releases or threatened releases from facilities or vessels under the jurisdiction, custody or control of Executive departments and agencies but must be reimbursed to the Hazardous Substance Superfund by such Executive department or agency. 
Sec. 10. Federal Facilities. (a) When necessary, prior to selection of a remedial action by the Administrator under Section 120(e)(4)(A) of the Act, Executive agencies shall have the opportunity to present their views to the Administrator after using the procedures under Section 1-6 of Executive Order No. 12088 of October 13, 1978, or any other mutually acceptable process. Notwithstanding subsection 1-602 of Executive Order No. 12088, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall facilitate resolution of any issues. 
(b) Executive Order No. 12088 of October 13, 1978, is amended by renumbering the current Section 1-802 as Section 1-803 and inserting the following new Section 1-802: 
"1-802. Nothing in this Order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against the United States, its agencies, its officers, or any person." 
Sec. 11. General Provisions. (a) The function vested in the President by Section 101 (37) of the Act is delegated to the Administrator. 
(b)(1) The function vested in the President by Section 105(1) of the Act, relating to reporting on minority participation in contracts, is delegated to the Administrator. 
(2) Subject to paragraph i of this subsection, the functions vested in the President by Section 105(1) of the Act are delegated to the heads of Executive departments and agencies in order to carry out the functions delegated to them by this Order. Each Executive department and agency shall provide to the Administrator any requested information on minority contracting for inclusion in the Section 105(1) annual report. 
(c) The functions vested in the President by Section 126(c) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator, to be exercised in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior. 
(d) The functions vested in the President by Section 301(c) of the Act are delegated to the Secretary of the Interior. 
(e) Each agency shall have authority to issue such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the functions delegated to them by this Order.
(f) The performance of any function under this Order shall be done in consultation with interested Federal departments and agencies represented on the NRT, as well as with any other interested Federal agency. 
(g) The following functions vested in the President by the Act which have been delegated or assigned by this Order may be redelegated to the head of any Executive department or agency with his consent: functions set forth in Sections 2 (except subsection (b)), 3, 4(b), 4(c), 4(d), 5(b), 5(c), and 8(c) of this Order. 
(h) Executive Order No. 12316 of August 14, 1981, is revoked.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
January 23, 1987. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 2:35 p.m., January 27, 1987]