By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The comfort of familiar surroundings and the loving care and attention of family members often give an important measure of relief to patients recovering from illness or injury, including those on early release from hospitals or nursing homes. Many Americans who understand this and who decide to care for their loved ones at home find welcome assistance in occasional services offered by home health care providers. 
A variety of groups make such care available. Thousands of home health agencies-large and small, urban and rural, public and private, hospital-based and independent-provide nursing services; physical, speech, and occupational therapy; social services; and home health aide services. The dedication of these organizations and their thousands of employees and volunteers has eased the path to recovery for countless Americans. 
The high-quality services of home health care providers give aged and disabled citizens an exceptional opportunity to take advantage of this Medicare-covered benefit and recuperate in their own homes, where they can most effectively draw upon the constant support and concern of their families. That strengthens family life and individual independence alike, and is good reason for all of us to celebrate National Home Health Care Week and to thank and salute the men and women who supply home health care. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 98, has designated the week beginning November 29, 1987, as "National Home Health Care Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning November 29, 1987, as National Home Health Care Week, and I call upon government officials, interested organizations and associations, and all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities to acquaint themselves with home health care and to support these vital services to elderly and disabled people. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 30th day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twelfth.
RONALD REAGAN