Action Against Certain Assets of Disputed Title 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States, including section 204 of the Special Foreign Assistance Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-529) and section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and for the limited purpose of preserving the status quo pending a judicial resolution of the proceedings that have been or may be instituted by the Government of Haiti in its efforts to recover assets allegedly stolen by its former President, Jean Claude Duvalier, and his associates, and without expressing any opinion as to the merits of any claim or defense in any judicial proceeding, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. The acquisition, transfer (including transfer on the books of any issuer, holder, or depositary), payment, disposition, transportation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the recording of interest in or ownership of, or any deed of title, mortgage, or other evidence of ownership or title regarding or dealing in, any real or personal property, of any kind whatsoever, located in the United States and described in Section 2 of this Order is prohibited unless expressly authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury under such terms and conditions as he may prescribe. 
Sec. 2. Property will be considered to fall within the scope of this Order and to be subject to the prohibition contained in Section 1 when: 
(a) The Government of Haiti certifies, in writing with appropriate documentation, to the Secretary of the Treasury that:
(1) it has initiated litigation in the Federal or State courts of the United States alleging that the Government of Haiti or its instrumentalities should be awarded title to, custody of, or possession of, the property; 
(2) it has evidence reasonably to believe that such property currently is held or possessed by or in the name of Jean Claude Duvalier or other individuals associated with the Duvalier regime, or a taker from Jean Claude Duvalier or his associates; 
(3) it has petitioned the court to attach or otherwise restrain the property and has reason to believe that the court would grant such petition were the Government of Haiti to post adequate bond; and 
(4) it is unable, without outside assistance, to post the necessary security because of lack of assets; 
(b) The Department of Treasury gives notice to the holder of the property that such property falls within the scope of this Order and, in consultation with the Departments of State and Justice, has not determined that an insufficient basis exists for the certification by the Government of Haiti; and 
(c) The court which the Government of Haiti has petitioned to attach or otherwise restrain the property has not denied such petition on grounds other than the failure of the Government of Haiti to post adequate bond. 
Sec. 3. Upon the entry of final judgment and after exhaustion of any appeals that might be taken, as well as satisfaction of any judgment, in any action in which the property described in Section 2 was sought, the property shall no longer be subject to the prohibition contained in Section 1 of this Order. 
Sec. 4. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this Order. 
Sec. 5. This Order is not intended to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against the United States, its agencies, its officers, or any person. 
Sec. 6. This Order is effective immediately.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
March 18, 1987. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:56 p.m., March 18, 1987]