By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Forty years ago this June 5, Secretary of State George Catlett Marshall, Jr., in a commencement address at Harvard University, proposed a plan for the reconstruction of war-shattered Europe. It is truly fitting that we commemorate the 40th anniversary of what became known as the Marshall Plan, because it was the foundation for the most remarkable period of peace and prosperity in history. Highly symbolic of American commitment to peace and freedom in Europe, the Plan most appropriately bore George Marshall's name. As Chief of Staff of the Army during World War II, he had been instrumental in the liberation of Europe; after peace had come, he worked with equal vigor as Secretary of State to see Europe restored to a new level of strength and vitality. 
The Marshall Plan is a proud monument in the history of our Nation, because it derives from our large and generous spirit and our commitment to the principles of interdependence, self-determination, and openness to positive cooperation. The plan succeeded beyond greatest expectations and remains an inspiration today because it demonstrates what is possible when nations lay aside differences to meet a common challenge. 
We also take this opportunity to honor George C. Marshall for his lifetime of devotion to the United States of America. He led the Army during our greatest test of arms, served as Secretary of State and Secretary of Defense, and became the first professional soldier to receive the Nobel Peace Prize. He will be remembered forever as the epitome of the citizen soldier. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 70, has designated the month of June as "George C. Marshall Month" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim June 1987 as George C. Marshall Month. I urge all Americans to join in observance of this month with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this first day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightyseven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eleventh.
RONALD REAGAN