By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Fifty years ago, a milestone in our Nation's artistic history was achieved when "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs" became the first full-length animated feature film, and the movie soundtrack album became the first original soundtrack recording ever released. Since that historic ground-breaking for a new genre in the motion picture art, moviegoers have enjoyed a long and colorful succession of animated films. 
As we celebrate the 50th anniversary of the first animated feature-length film, we can be grateful for the art of film animation , which brings to the screen such magic and lasting vitality. We can also be grateful for the contribution that animation has made to producing so many family films during the last half-century—films embodying the fundamental values of good over evil, courage, and decency that Americans so cherish. Through animation, we have witnessed the wonders of nature, ancient fables, tales of American heroes, and stories of youthful adventure. In recent years, our love for technology and the future has been reflected in computer-generated graphic art and animation. 
The achievements in the motion picture art that have followed since the debut of the first feature-length animated film in 1937 have mirrored the artistic development of American culture and the advancement of our Nation's innovation and technology. By recognizing this anniversary, we pay tribute to the triumph of creative genius that has prospered in our free enterprise system as nowhere else in the world. We recognize that, where men and women are free to express their creative talents, there is no limit to their potential achievement. 
In recognition of the special place of animation in American film history, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 122, has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United States to celebrate the week beginning July 16, 1987, with appropriate observances of the 50th anniversary of the animated feature film. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim that during the week beginning July 16, 1987, marking the 50th anniversary of feature film animation, the people of the United States are encouraged to observe this historic milestone in our Nation's artistic history with appropriate ceremonies, programs, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twelfth.
RONALD REAGAN