By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Setting aside a week in recognition of our country's historically Black colleges and universities is most appropriate because they are truly valuable national resources. During more than a century and a quarter they have educated hundreds of thousands of Americans who have gone on to contribute substantially to our Nation in every walk of life. Their alumni have included some of our most outstanding leaders and scholars. 
This year, commemoration of the role of historically Black colleges and universities falls during our Nation's observance of the Bicentennial of the Constitution. That cherished document is the guarantor of liberty, union, and self-government for all Americans. Thanks to it we remain a strong people united in the richness of our diversity. We can all be proud of the role of historically Black colleges and universities in strengthening our country. Keeping these fine institutions a vital force in American education is a worthy national goal. 
To acknowledge the accomplishments of historically Black colleges and universities and the appropriateness of focusing national attention on their contributions, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 22, has designated the week of September 21 through September 27, 1987, as "National Historically Black Colleges Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this commemoration. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of September 21 through September 27, 1987, as National Historically Black Colleges Week. I urge all Americans to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities to express our respect and appreciation for the outstanding academic and social accomplishments of our Nation's historically Black institutions of higher learning. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 24th day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twelfth.
RONALD REAGAN