By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Americans are naturally proud of their practical genius; their love and mastery of domestic crafts, handed down from generation to generation, are among our prime national virtues. Throughout American history, one such craft has been the art of sewing. National Sewing Month, 1988, celebrates the American tradition of sewing in the home and salutes the estimated 90 million citizens who partake of its challenges and rewards. 
Home sewing is an enjoyable and productive pastime that serves a variety of useful purposes. For instance, it inspires people to pursue sewing-related occupations; sewing skills learned at home or during more formal instruction help foster lifelong careers in fields such as fashion, pattern-making, retail merchandising, and interior and textile design. Many people find that home sewing is a boon to friendship among neighbors, or a good way for caring citizens to assist their fellowman through volunteer projects. Sewing's closest link to most of us, however, is undoubtedly its familiarity as a part of daily life in the home. That is because the sewing circle has so often been a link between grandparents, parents, and children; in its pleasures and satisfactions are found both a sense of individual accomplishment and an intuition of a larger human endeavor. In this way, a basic skill of family life is passed on, and an ancient art made new. 
These are all very good reasons for America to celebrate National Sewing Month, 1988, with heartfelt appreciation for the talents and achievements of those among us who sew in the home. 
In recognition of the importance of home sewing to the United States, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 580, has designated September 1988 as "National Sewing Month" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim September 1988 as National Sewing Month. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this month with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth.
RONALD REAGAN