By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
1. On July 21, 1988, prior to the date of enactment of section 1301 of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100-418), I determined pursuant to section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2411), that the Government of Brazil has failed to provide process and product patent protection for pharmaceutical products and fine chemicals, and that this failure is unreasonable and constitutes a burden or restriction on U.S. commerce (53 Fed. Reg. 28177). This failure permits the unauthorized copying of pharmaceutical products and processes that were invented by U.S. firms. I directed the United States Trade Representative to hold public hearings on products of Brazil that were appropriate candidates for increased duties or other import restrictions, and those hearings were held September 8 and 9, 1988. I have further determined, pursuant to section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended by the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988, that appropriate and feasible action in response to Brazil's unreasonable policies and practices is to impose increased duties of 100 percent ad valorem on certain imported articles that are the products of Brazil. 
2. Section 301 of the Act as amended authorizes appropriate and feasible action within the power of the President to obtain the elimination of an act, policy, or practice of a foreign government that is inconsistent with the provisions of, or otherwise denies benefits to the United States under, a trade agreement; or is unjustifiable, unreasonable, or discriminatory and burdens or restricts U.S. commerce. Section 301 authorizes the suspension, withdrawal, or prevention of the application of benefits of trade agreement concessions with respect to, and the imposition of duties or other import restrictions on the products of, such foreign country for such time as is appropriate. Pursuant to section 301, such actions may be taken on a nondiscriminatory basis or solely against the products of the foreign country involved. 
3. I have decided, pursuant to section 301, to increase U.S. import duties on the articles provided for in the annexes to this Proclamation that are the products of Brazil. 
4. Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2483) authorizes the President to embody in the Tariff Schedules of the United States (TSUS) the substance of the provisions of that Act, of other Acts affecting import treatment, and of actions taken thereunder. Section 1204(b) of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 requires that I proclaim such modifications to the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTS), as enacted in section 1204 of that Act, as are necessary or appropriate to implement the applicable provisions of statutes enacted, executive actions taken, and final judicial decisions rendered, after January 1, 1988, and before the effective date of the HTS. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, acting under the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the United States, including but not limited to sections 301 and 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, and section 1204 of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988, do proclaim that: 
(1) Subpart B of part 2 of the Appendix to the TSUS is modified as provided in Annex I to this Proclamation. 
(2) Chapter 99 of the HTS is modified as provided in Annex II to this Proclamation. 
(3) The United States Trade Representative is authorized to suspend, modify, or terminate the increased duties imposed by this Proclamation upon publication in the Federal Register of his determination that such action is in the interest of the United States. 
(4)(a) The modifications to the TSUS made by Annex I to this Proclamation are effective with respect to articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after the 10th day after the date of signature of this Proclamation. 
(b) The modifications to the HTS made by Annex II to this Proclamation are effective with respect to articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after January 1, 1989. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth.
RONALD REAGAN