By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Saturday, October 22, is the 50th anniversary of Chester F. Carlson's invention of xerographic printing, which has transformed our ability to copy documents quickly. By inventing and developing this process, Carlson did much to increase productivity and efficiency throughout society and to make information more readily available. The profound and enduring achievements of this second-generation American exemplify our national spirit of ingenuity and opportunity, and we can all gladly celebrate them. 
Carlson studied physics and law and became fascinated with finding a solution to the need for speedy and inexpensive copies of information. He applied his knowledge of electrophotography to the challenge and created xerography. His genius sparked an indispensable industry in which American businesses, both large and small, are world leaders. This outstanding American inventor continued to serve his country and humanity by supporting and encouraging the activities of many colleges and universities, charities, and causes through the years. 
The United States Postal Service is issuing a commemorative stamp in honor of Chester F. Carlson as part of the "Great American" series, and it is in the same spirit that all of us pause for a day of national recognition for him. 
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 629, has designated October 22, 1988, as "National Chester F. Carlson Recognition Day" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 22, 1988, as National Chester F. Carlson Recognition Day. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth.
RONALD REAGAN