By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Each day, millions of people around the world face the frightening specter of hunger and malnutrition. These problems are devastating to developing countries, where they cause immeasurable human suffering -- especially among children. As an expression of our Nation's continued commitment to ending world hunger, the United States joins 150 other countries in observing World Food Day. 
The American people, through a number of government-sponsored and private food relief programs, have responded generously to the needs of those affected by famine and natural disasters. During the year that ended in June, the United States sent over five mnillion metric tons of wheat, rice, and coarse grains to countries in need -- more than all other contributing nations combined. The United States is also helping to alleviate hunger and malnutrition in poor countries by encouraging economic growth and private sector development. 
Fortunately, the need for global food donations abated during the past year as drought ended in many countries. In most of Africa, the agricultural situation improved. Yet widespread starvation continues in Sudan and Mozambique, mainly due to violent civil conflict and the dislocation of millions of people. 
Efforts to alleviate hunger and encourage agricultural reforms in developing countries must continue. While food production has improved around the world, the financial capacity to grow, import, and distribute agricultural products has deteriorated in many nations. Indeed, in several countries where production has reached only marginal rates, the potential for disaster remains. 
The developed nations of the world must determine how best to help developing countries increase their food production and generate sufficient revenues to buy, store, and distribute essential agricultural imports. It is our hope that World Food Day will inspire fresh proposals for easing world hunger and promote greater understanding between those nations in need and those with food to share. 
This year, as we observe World Food Day, we call special attention to the global environment. If we are to improve and sustain the world's agricultural productivity, we must protect its soil, air, and water. Through careful planning and stewardship of our natural resources, we can reduce threats to the environment and increase our food security. 
We Americans have been blessed with not only an abundance of natural resources, but the freedom that is the foundation of economic growth and prosperity. We recognize the adverse consequences of centralized control of agriculture and excessive government intervention in the marketplace. We know that, in the fight against world hunger, freedom is the key to long-term progress and lasting productivity. That is why, in addition to providing direct food aid to less developed countries, the United States is encouraging the development of agricultural policies that harness the power of private enterprise and reward individual initiative. The United States is also encouraging the development and implementation of free and fair trade practices that will allow all farmers greater access to international markets. 
As we observe World Food Day, let us renew our determination to seek effective answers to the problems of world hunger. Let us also gratefully acknowledge the generous efforts of the many public employees, health care professionals, volunteers, and concerned citizens who devote their time and energy to assisting those who suffer from hunger and hunger-related diseases. 
In recognition of the desire and commitment of Americans to end world hunger, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 138, has designated October 16, 1989, as "World Food Day" and has authorized the President to issue a proclamation in observance of these days. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 16, 1989, and October 16, 1990, as World Food Day, and I call upon the people of the United States to observe these days with appropriate ceremonies and activities, including worship services, fasting, educational programs, and studies designed to find ways in which our Nation can further contribute to the elimination of hunger in the world. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH