By the President of the United States if America
A Proclamation
On Mother's Day, Americans of all ages pause to express their deep gratitude and love for their mothers. Whether we do so in person, over the phone, or by honoring her memory, expressions of affection and appreciation for our mother are but a small reflection of the love and generosity she has bestowed on us. 
A mother's love, while demonstrated daily in acts of tenderness and generosity, is always a source of wonder. Who can fathom the quiet thoughts of one who keeps in her heart a constant vigil over the child she has carried in her womb, rocked in her arms, and watched grow, with eyes full of worry, joy, and pride? Her devotion never fails to fill us with gratitude and awe. 
Our mother is our first teacher and greatest advocate. In her voice, we hear the reassurance or gentle reproach that helps to guide us through times of doubt and decision. In her example, we discover the meaning of unconditional love. 
A mother bears her child's pains and disappointments as if they were here own and celebrates every accomplishment as if no other child could achieve the same. She delights in every drawing of purple trees and lopsided houses fashioned in crayon by her child's small, uncertain hand because she knows that each one reveals his blossiming awareness of the world around him. A mother also rejoices as her child grows in wisdom and responsibility, is firm in instilling moral values, yet pardons every failure along the way. Selfless and forgiving, maternal love is the closest thing on earth to the perfect love of our Creator. 
Today, we honor all those women who, by virtue of giving birth, or through adoption or marriage, are mothers. Each of us should let our mother know that she is ever close in our hearts, and that her many gifts to us are cherished and remembered -- not only on Mother's Day, but throughout the year. 
In recognition of the contributions of all mothers to their families and to the Nation, the Congress, by a joint resolution approved May 8, 1914 (38 Stat. 770), has designated the second Sunday in May each year as Mother's Day and requested the President to call for its appropriate observance. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim that Sunday, May 14, 1989, be observed as Mother's Day. I urge all Americans to express their love and respect for their mothers and to reflect on the importance of motherhood to the well-being of our country. I direct Federal officials to display the flag of the United States on all Federal buildings, and I urge all citizens to display the flag at their homes and other suitable places on that day. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH