By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended an advisory committee to assist in the development, dissemination, explanation, and promotion of national drug control policy, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. 
Establishment.
 (a) There is established the President's Drug Advisory Council in the Federal Government. The Council shall be composed of not more than 30 members appointed by the President from among citizens in private life. 
(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the Council. 
Sec. 2. 
Functions.
 (a) The Council shall recommend to and advise the President and the Director of National Drug Control Policy on developing methods and means to explain national drug control policies to the American people. 
(b) The Council shall recommend to and advise the President and the Director of National Drug Control Policy on promotional efforts to encourage the private sector to implement national drug control policies. 
(c) The Council shall study the feasibility of establishing a national support organization to help coordinate private sector initiatives to implement national drug control policies, and, in consultation with the President and the Director of National Drug Control Policy, shall provide advice to assist in the establishment of such support organization. 
(d) The Council shall meet with and solicit the advice of various members of the media and communications field, and, in consultation with the President and the Director of National Drug Control Policy, shall provide advice in coordinating efforts of the private sector to inform the public of the dangers of illegal drug use. 
(e) The Council shall devise means to solicit the views and advice of the American people regarding the development and implementation of national drug control policy. In consultation with the President and the Director of National Drug Control Policy, the Council shall utilize forums and seminars in various regions of the country to assist in this function. 
(f) The Chairman of the Council shall report to the President and the Director of National Drug Control Policy, whenever requested. 
Sec. 3. 
Administration.
 (a) Members of the Council shall serve without compensation. 
(b) Members of the Council may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in Government service -5707). 
(c) The Office of National Drug Control Policy shall provide administrative staff support to the Council, to assist in its day-to-day operations. 
(d) To the extent permitted by law, the heads of executive departments and agencies shall provide the Chairman of the Council, upon request, with such information as the Chairman may require for the purposes of carrying out the Council's functions. 
Sec. 4. 
General Provisions.
 (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, except that of reporting to the Congress, which are applicable to the Council, shall be performed by the Director of National Drug Control Policy, in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
(b) The Council shall terminate 24 months from the date of this order, unless sooner extended. 
George Bush
The White House,
November 13, 1989.