By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Nineteen hundred and eighty-nine marks the two hundredth year of uninterrupted governance under the Constitution of the United States. It is a fitting occasion to honor those of our fellow citizens who are pledged by solemn oath to "support and defend" the Constitution. As capable and dedicated Federal employees, these men and women have contributed to the success of free, democratis government both here and around the world. 
Federal employees speed our mail, guard our borders, and care for our ailing veterans. The conduct medical research that will lead to cures for devastating illnesses, they man the spacecraft the probe the boundaries of the universe, and they help the men and women of the Armed Forces maintain our national security. In countless ways, Federal employees serve our country with skill and dedication, seeing to it that the will of the American people is carried our effectively. 
Federal employees show us the meaning of public service of the job as well. Thousands of churches, fraternal lodges, voluntary associations, and community groups across the country have come to count on the generosity and active involvement of Federal employees. 
Those individuals dedicated to serving our country as employees of the Federal Government deserve our respect, gratitude, and recognition. Accordingly, by House Joint Resolution 22, the Congress has designated the week beginning March 6, 1989, as "Federal Employees Recongnition Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning March 6, 1989, as Federal Employees Recognition Week. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this occasion with appropriate ceremonies and activities, in recognition of the skillful and loyal service provided the Republic by employees of the Federal Government. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eight day of March, in the year of our Loard nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH