By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Diabetes mellitus is one of the most serious public health problems challenging this country today. An estimated 11 million Americans have the disease, and about half of the them are not aware of their illness. 
Each year, more than 500,000 new cases of diabetes are identified. All diabetics are at increased risk of developing eye, nerve, or kidney damage, as well as heart disease. These complications make diabetes a leading cause of death in the United States. Affecting individuals of all ages, regardless of gender or race, diabetes costs our Nation billions of dollars annually in health care and lost economic productivity. More important, however, and more tragic is the untold personal suffering endured by diabetics and their families. 
Fortunately, however, the mystery of diabetes is beginning to unfold. Medical research has produced remarkable progress in understanding the causes and complications of diabetes and in devising treatments for it. In insulin-dependent diabetes, the immune system destroys insulin-producing cells. Recent research advances include the identification of markers that signal the onset of insulin-dependent diabetes years before it occurs -- a discovery that may one day make early intervention possible. 
Progress also has been made in unraveling the puzzle of non-insulin-dependent diabetes, with indications that this form of diabetes is actually many diseases with different causes related to cellular abnormalities. In this area of research, scientists are developing and applying the tools needed to examine what happens in diabetes at the cellular level. 
Basic and clinical research advances have significantly reduced diabetes-related deaths and have improved the quality of life for people with diabetes. Nevertheless, much needs to be done before the cure and prevention of diabetes and its complications become a reality. The Federal Government, in cooperation with voluntary and professional health organizations, is continuing to conduct research aimed at eliminating diabetes as a threat to the health of present and future generations. 
To enhance public understanding of diabetes and to recognize the efforts of those working to eliminate this public health problem, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 131, has designated the month of November 1989 as "National Diabetes Month" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this month. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of November 1989 as National Diabetes Month. I call upon concerned Government agencies, public and private organizations, and the people of the United States to observe this month with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set by hand this fifteenth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hunddred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH