By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Our Nation's historically Black colleges and universities have long been a symbol of hope and a door to advancement for Black Americans. Committed to equal opportunity and academic excellence, these institutions have offered minority students the chance to receive a quality education. Thousands of young people, many of them from disadvantaged families, have graduated from historically Black colleges and pursued distinguished careers in education, law, medicine, engineering, business, the arts, and the military. 
In the past, historically Black colleges and universities offered Black Americans their best, and often their only, opportunity to obtain a higher education. Today, the legal barriers that led to the creation of separate schools for Black students have been struck down by the Courts. Nevertheless, historically Black colleges and universities continue to make vital contributions to American education, adding to the diversity and caliber of academic institutions in the United States. 
By an Executive order issued on April 28, 1989, the President's Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities was established to advise the President and the Secretary of Education on strengthening these valued institutions. The Executive order directed Federal agencies to devise ways to increase the ability of historically Black colleges and universities to participate in Federally funded programs. It is also underscored the importance of increasing private sector support for these schools through such devices and activities as matching funds programs, management assistance, technical development, and curriculum planning. 
Historically Black colleges and universities not only enable talented young people to grow in knowledge, but also remind all Americans of our obligation to uphold the principles of justice and equality enshrined in our Constitution. They deserve our appreciation and support. In recognition of the many contributions that these schools and their graduates have made to our society, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 109, has designated the period beginning September 11 and ending September 15, 1989, as "National Historically Black Colleges Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the period beginning September 11, 1989, and ending September 15, 1989, as National Historically Black Colleges Week. I urge all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities as an expression of their support for these important educational institutions. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH