By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Each day, on land, at sea, and in the air, the men and women of the United States Armed Forces stand watch. They keep a constant vigil for our security and for the peace and freedom with which we have been blessed. Theirs is an awesome responsibility. Our soldiers, sailors, and airmen are not only indispensable pillars of our national defense, but also visible symbols of our commitment to the principles of liberty, self-determination, and democratic government. 
On the world's oceans, even the routine of daily operation is not without substantial hazard for our sailors and marines. The fallen crew members of the USS IOWA understood the risks they would face while serving our country, yet they chose to accept them. They were patriots and professionals. 
The people of the United States will long remembers the 47 young men killed by the tragic explosion on board the USS IOWA. We shall remember them for their bravery and selflessness, just as we remember the many honored veterans who have gone before them. They served this country with pride and purpose, and we must never forget the sacrifices they made for our sake. 
In solemn recognition of the valiant crew members of the USS IOWA who lost their on April 19, 1989, and in order to extend to their families the American people's heartfelt sympathy, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 247, has designated Memorial Day, May 29, 1989, as the "National Day of Remembrance for the Victims of the USS IOWA." House Joint Resolution 247 also authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Monday, May 29, 1989, as the National Day of Remembrance for the Victims of the USS IOWA. I call upon all Americans to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set may hand this twenty-fourth day of May, in the year or our Lord nineteen hundred and eight-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH