By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Each year on March 25th, Americans gladly join in celebrating the anniversary of Greek independence-the national day of our long-time friends and allies. The ties between our two nations today have been woven throughout the centuries. Ancient Greece gave the world a profound appreciation for freedom, justice, and democratic government. Our Nation's Founding Fathers drew insight from the classical Greek philosophers, and our own struggle for independence was inspired by the democratic values the Greeks espoused. In 1821, less than a century after the American Revolution, American friends of Greece backed the Greek drive for nationhood. President James Monroe voiced our Nation's support for "the heroic struggle of Greeks" during his seventh annual address to the Congress. 
Greeks and Americans share contemporary bonds as well. Millions of Americans proudly claim Greek descent. Partners in NATO, our two nations are united in the common defense of liberty and democratic government. 
On March 25th, one hundred and sixty-eight years ago, the Greek people began their struggle for nationhood and independence. By joining the Greek commemoration of that event, we remember the democratic values that Greece and the United States share and we rededicate ourselves to them. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 64, has designated March 25, 1989, as "Greek Independence Day: A National Day of Celebration of Greek and American Democracy" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim March 25, 1989, as Greek Independence Day: A National Day of Celebration of Greek and American Democracy, and I urge all Americans to join in appropriate ceremonies and activities to salute the Greek people and Greek Independence.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH