By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Each year, more and more Americans become familiar with the medical term "osteoporosis." Osteoporosis, or porous bone, is actually a common disease that afflicts approximately 25 million Americans. It is often called the "silent disease" because it develops over many years without symptoms. This silent disease is the leading cause of bone fractures in postmenopausal women in particular, and in elderly persons in general. In fact, osteoporosis causes more than 1.3 million fractures of the spine, wrist, and hips each year. 
The impact on individuals and society in terms of physical, emotional, and financial suffering is enormous. Osteoporosis and osteoporotic fractures cost the Nation an estimated $10 billion annually. Fortunately, we now know that fractures caused by osteoporosis may be preventable. 
To reduce the risks of developing osteoporosis, we must begin a healthy regimen early in life. It is important to build the maximum amount of bone mass possible during childhood and adolescence and to keep our bones strong during adulthood. In our later years, it is particularly important to prevent the falls and accidents that can lead to bone fractures. 
Research has shown that, before an individual is 35 years old, moderate exercise and proper nutrition -- including an adequate intake of calcium -- may help to build bone mass. Other investigations have indicated that, for postmenopausal women, estrogen replacement therapy, a sufficient supply of calcium, and regular weight-bearing exercise all help to curb the rate of bone loss. 
New scientific, medical, and educational approaches to the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis will help to improve the health of all Americans. As individuals, each of us can protect ourselves and our children from this potentially debilitating disease by maintaining a healthy diet and regular exercise program. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 37, has designated the week beginning May 14, 1989, and the week beginning May 13, 1990, as "National Osteoporosis Prevention Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of these events. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of May 14 through May 20, 1989, and the week of May 13 through May 19, 1990, as "National Osteoporosis Prevention Week." I urge the people of the United States, as well as educational, scientific, medical, health care, and community service organizations to observe these weeks with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this seventeenth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH