By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Parents have no greater responsibility than their children -- the precious persons entrusted to their care and protection. For millions of American families, child care is an increasingly important issue. With an increasing number of single-parent families and the proportion of mothers who work outside the home in two-parent families rising, more and more parents are seeking help in caring for their children.
The majority of those needing child care turn to family members, friends, or neighbors. Others seek support from an array of nonprofit and proprietary child care providers operating in the country today. Churches and church-affiliated programs also play a vital role in caring for our Nation's children, providing quality day care and the religious atmosphere that many parents desire.
Increasing the range of child care options available to parents -- particularly those who head families of modest means -- will benefit the Nation's children, their parents, and the country as a whole. Parents need options that allow them to make the child care arrangements that best meet their families' needs and preferences.
"National Child Care Awareness Week" is a time when we recognize the importance of quality child care and applaud the dedicated and concerned individuals who provide that care.
It is also a time to renew our efforts to be creative and energetic in increasing the variety of child care arrangements available to parents. We must always remember that parents are best able to make decisions about their children's care and should have the ability to do so freely.
As we celebrate "National Child Care Awareness Week," let us rededicate ourselves to improving care for the children of America. Let us also recognize that while the specific child care requirements of families differ, the provision of loving and supportive care is a need all children share.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 50, has designated the week beginning April 2, 1989, as "National Child Care Awareness Week" and has requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this occasion.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning April 2, 1989, as National Child Care Awareness Week. I call upon all Americans to join with me in honoring the parents, relatives, schools, churches, and commercial child care providers who accept the enormously important responsibility of helping to care for our children. National Child Care Awareness Week affords us a welcome opportunity to offer them recognition and encouragement. 
GEORGE BUSH