By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The rich heritage of the Jewish people has been an inspiration to Americans since the founding of our Nation. The Judaic traditions of defending freedom, promoting justice, and assisting those in need are embraced by our Nation's own laws and customs. 
Like so many others, Jews came to the United States in search of freedom and a chance to build a better life. They found this land rich in educational and economic opportunities and have taken advantage of them. In return, they have made important contributions to every sphere of American life, from medicine and academia to the arts, business, and community service. 
At this time of year, it is appropriate to reflect on the suffering in recent Jewish history, as well as the grounds for hope. In early May, we commemorate the courage and faith of the six million European Jews who perished at the hands of Nazis between 1939 and 1945. On May 10, we celebrate 41 years of Israeli independence. The establishment and survival of the State of Israel following the Holocaust is a powerful reminder that hope can conquer tragedy and that freedom can survive even the most ruthless attempts to defeat it. Its anniversary is a fitting occasion for Americans to rededicate ourselves to the cause of liberty and justice for all. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 25, has designated the period of May 7 through May 14, 1989, as "Jewish Heritage Week" and has requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of May 7 through May 14, 1989, as "Jewish Heritage Week." I call upon the American people, State and local government agencies, and interested organizations to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies, activities, and programs. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this first day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH