By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Few advances in medicine inspire more awe than successful organ and tissue transplants. In recent years, we have witnessed the restoration of sight to the blind through new corneas; we have watched cancer patients regain their health through bone marrow transplants; and we have seen gravely ill men and women get another chance at life with a new heart, lung, or kidney. These wonderful success stories would not have been possible without the generosity of those Americans who were willing to donate their organs and tissues to others. 
Much has been done in recent years to encourage public support of organ and tissue donation. Through the American Council of Transplantation, regional donor programs, community leadership, and media support, millions of Americans have learned about donation and have signed donor cards. Unfortunately, despite these efforts and the success of transplant programs around the world, many seriously ill persons still await organ transplants. That is why I encourage each and every American to give careful thought to becoming an organ and tissue donor. 
I encourage every American to learn the facts about organ and tissue transplants and to discuss any moral or ethical concerns about donation with your family and doctor. Organ and tissue transplants give us cause to reflect upon the precious gift of human life, as well as our responsibility to treat it with care and reverence. Just as we give thanks for the life and health with which God has blessed us, so, too, must we solemnly consider the profound act of sharing life with others through organ and tissue donation. 
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 112, has designated the weeks of April 23 through 29, 1989, and April 23 through 29, 1990, as "National Organ and Tissue Donor Awareness Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this occasion. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the weeks ofApril 23 through 29, 1989, and April 23 through 29, 1990, as National Organ and Tissue Donor Awareness Week. I ask health care professionals, public and private service organizations, and all Americans to join in supporting this humanitarian cause. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of April, inthe year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH