By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The United States was built by men and women who were willing to face both the unknown dangers of life on the frontier and its certain demand for constant hard work. These courageous pioneers were willing to take great risks because they believed that even greater opportunities awaited them in the new land. 
Today, that same pioneer spirit can be found among the thousands of Americans who accept the risks of starting a new business, making it succeed, and keeping it competitive. This week, we recognize the industrious and determined spirit of minority business men and women in particular. 
Our Nation's economic growth and ability to compete in the international marketplace depend on the full participation of all members of our society. Minority busienss men and women have helped to expand our economy through innovation, hard work, and by taking advantage of the opportunities available in our free enterprise system. These entrepreneurs have become an indispensable force in our economy, and they will continue to play a key role in our efforts to expand America's share of world markets. 
Increasing our Nation's competitiveness in the rapidly changing global marketplace will require us to continue harnessing the entrepreneurial spirit of all our people. Therefore, we must renew our commitment to eliminating the barriers that hinder the participation of minority men and women in our economy; we must continue to promote quality education and effective job training; and we must foster an appreciation for individual initiative and private enterprise among young people. 
The United States already benefits from the talent, energy, and labors of more than 800,000 minority businesses. This week, we honor them for their many achievements and reaffirm our commitment to helping young men and women follow their fine example. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week of October 1 through October 7, 1989, Minority Enterprise Development Week, 1989. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this week with approporiate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this second day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH