By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Throughout our Nation's history, agriculture has been a source of strength and pride. Providing food for a growing country and settling a vast continent, farmers and ranchers have been vital to the development of American culture and commerce. Today, our country shares an abundance of agricultural goods with millions of people around the world. 
Unfortunately, farmers and ranchers are often seriously hurt or disabled by accidents or illness. Far too often, tragic accidents on farms and ranches involve children. Agriculture's accidental death and injury rates are now among the highest of all major industries, bringing devastating losses and suffering to rural families and their communities. 
Although much as been done to reduce risks to the health and safety of ranch and farm workers, we must do more to preserve the well-being of those who give us so much. Simple, inexpensive measures could prevent most accidents and work-related illnesses. Individuals can avoid injury and illness by exercising greater caution during the course of their daily activities and by using recommended protective gear. Equipment manufacturers can help prevent accidents by installing improved safety features on farm machinery. Parents and rural schools can protect children by teaching them rules of safety. 
During National Farm Safety Week, we express our concern, as well as our appreciation, for the Nation's farmers and ranchers. Because autumn brings the rush of harvest to rural America, this busy season in an appropriate time to underscore our concern for farm and ranch families by renewing our support for efforts to improve their health and safety. A season marked by the sense of accomplishment and productivity should not be marred by tragedy. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week of September 17 through September 23, 1989, as National Farm Safety Week. I urge all persons who live and work on farms and ranches to slow down and take every precaution to protect their safety and health -- on the job, on the road, at home, and at leisure. I also urge them to protect their children by example and instruction in safe practices. I call upon organizations involved in agriculture to strengthen their support for community health and safety programs, and I encourage all Americans to take part in appropriate activities in observance of National Farm Safety Week as we acknowledge the immense contributions that men and women in agriculture make to our Nation. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twelfth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America and two hundred and thirteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH