By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Throughout the history of the United States, older Americans have had a profound role in shaping the character and destiny of our Nation. From the days of Ben Franklin, who was 81 years old when he helped to frame our Constitution, to the present time, older Americans have blessed us with their wisdom and leadership. Each May, during Older Americans Month, we express our respect and gratitude to these valued members of our society. 
The contributions of older individuals are evident in virtually every aspect of American life: in government, business and industry, and in science and the arts. Today, millions of older Americans are remaining in the work force well past the traditional "retirement age." In fact, many senior citizens are pursuing second careers, while others continue to contribute to our communities and Nation through volunteer work. 
All older Americans -- whether they hold jobs, volunteer, or quietly devote their time to family and friends -- enrich our lives beyond measure. Therefore, let us honor them not only during Older Americans Month, but throughout the year. Let us always show our appreciation for senior citizens by respecting, in policy as well as practice, their rights and dignity. We can demonstrate our commitment to that end by helping older persons to maintain their independence, and by protecting them from exploitation and discrimination. 
Let us also remember that, while most older Americans are healthy and active, some need special care and attention. Across the United States, thousands of community groups, religious societies, voluntary service organizations, and government agencies are working to help meet the special needs of elderly Americans. As individuals and as a Nation, we must ensure that every community provides the services and opportunities that older Americans need and deserve. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 45, has recognized the month of May 1989, as "Older Americans Month," and has requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this month. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of May 1989 as Older Americans Month. I call upon the American people to observe this month with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH