By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
For more than 200 years, the members of the American merchant marine and civilian American seafarers have made vital contributions to the economic development of the United States. They have also played an essential role in securing and maintaining our freedom. 
The effectiveness of the merchant marine in military operations was first revealed during the Revolutionary War, when our Nation's commercial vessels supplemented the 34 ships of the Continental Navy. These vessels captured or sank some 600 British merchant craft, thereby disrupting enemy shipping and helping to advance the end of the war. Since that time, America's merchant sailors have continued to demonstrate their courage and patriotism during armed conflicts. Indeed, during World War II alone, more than 6,000 civilian seafarers lost their lives in efforts to deliver essential reinforcements and supplies to our Armed Forces and those of our Allies around the world. Despite the loss of more than 700 U.S.-flag merchant ships, our merchant seafarers successfully transported troops and kept open vital supply lines. 
Today, the merchant marine continues to play a vital role in trade and defense. The United States' national sealift objective remains the same: ensuring that sufficient military and civil maritime resources will be available to meet defense deployment and essential economic requirements in support of our national security strategy. 
Our new, comprehensive national transportation policy supports this objective and recognizes the need to reform Federal maritime programs in order to enhance both the competitiveness and the sealift capacity of the American merchant marine. In accordance with this policy, the Department of Transportation's goal is to review and restructure Federal maritime programs to promote cost efficiency in the U.S. fleet; to strengthen the fleet's competitive position in the international market; and to encourage necessary modernization and expansion. 
In recognition of the importance of the U.S. merchant marine, the Congress, by joint resolution approved May 20, 1933, has designated May 22 of each year as "National Maritime Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue annually a proclamation calling for its appropriate observance. This date was chosen to commemorate the day in 1819 when the SS SAVANNAH left Savannah, Georgia, on the first transatlantic steamship voyage. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim May 22, 1990, as National Maritime Day. I urge the people of the United States to observe this day by displaying the flag of the United States at their homes and other suitable places, and I request that all ships sailing under the American flag dress ship on that day. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH