By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
We know that individuals can influence their health, fitness, and productive performance of life through the active pursuit of regular exercise programs. Those who participate in physical activities or sports programs also know the exhilaration and sense of satisfaction that come from regular exercise. 
With increasing awareness of these benefits, the number of physically active men and women has continued to grow over the last decade. Today, nearly one of every two American adults participates regularly in some form of exercise and sports. 
There is great support for daily exercise for youngsters, regardless of physical capabilities. Physically fit persons generally live longer, perform better, and participate more fully in life. Moreover, habits formed at an early age tend to stay with a person for life. 
Many communities are demonstrating their support for physical fitness as a family activity by sponsoring athletic programs that involve the entire family. Indeed, the realization that fitness improves the quality of life has gained increasing popularity with senior citizens, and we are seeing a proliferation of organized exercise programs for our older citizens. 
Despite the progress that has been made, too many Americans -- of all ages -- do not exercise regularly. Of particular concern is the number of young Americans who are not physically fit. Our challenge is to instill youngsters with a sense of the value of physical fitness and a desire to get in shape and remain fit. It is essential that fitness and sports programs be made increasingly available in schools, at the workplace, and during leisure time so that our citizens will be able to experience the joys and benefits they offer. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the month of May 1990 as National Physical Fitness and Sports Month. I urge all Federal, State, and local government agencies and the people of the United States to observe the month with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this first day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH