By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Since its founding half a century ago, the National Federation of the Blind has been a leading advocate for Americans affected by severe visual loss. Its administrators, staff, and supporters know that persons who are blind possess not only the desire but also the ability to lead full, independent, and productive lives, and they have encouraged all Americans to recognize this fact as well. 
Through an effective community outreach program, the Federation has been working to enhance the public image of blind Americans and to promote real equality of opportunity for these members of our society. This outreach program includes television and radio appearances by Federation members, public presentations, and the distribution of educational materials. In addition, the Federation produces monthly and quarterly publications that serve as a valuable source of news and information on issues affecting Americans with impaired eyesight. 
If the United States is to remain a strong and prosperous country, one that is competitive in the rapidly changing global marketplace, we must utilize the talent, creativity, and skill of all our citizens. Helping more blind Americans to enter this country's social and economic mainstream is, therefore, not only a moral imperative but also a wise investment in our Nation's future. On July 26, I was pleased to sign into law the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. The world's first comprehensive declaration of equality for persons with disabilities, this legislation prohibits employers covered by the Act from discriminating against qualified applicants or employees on the basis of a disability; it guarantees persons with disabilities access to public accommodations, such as offices, hotels, and shopping centers; and it calls for improved access to transportation, State and local government services, and telecommunications as well. This legislation -- like the efforts of the National Federation of the Blind -- reflects our commitment to ensuring equality of opportunity for all Americans. 
In recognition of the Federation and its outstanding work, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 667, has designated November 16, 1990, as "National Federation of the Blind Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of that day. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim November 16, 1990, as National Federation of the Blind Day. I encourage all Americans to observe this day through appropriate programs and activities that reaffirm our appreciation of the rights, needs, and abilities of persons who are blind. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH