By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, including the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), and in order to provide a continuing source of advice on the public service from outstanding leaders in various walks of private life, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. 
Establishment.
 The President's Advisory Commission on the Public Service ("Commission") is hereby established. The Commission shall be comprised of 13 members to be appointed by the President from among leading citizens in private life. The members shall be appointed for 2-year terms, except that initial appointments shall include six members appointed to serve 1-year terms. Any vacancy in the Commission shall be filled by an appointment for the remainder of the term for which the original appointment was made, and a member whose term has expired may serve until his or her successor has been appointed. The President shall designate one of the members of the Commission to serve as Chairperson. 
Sec. 2. 
Functions.
 (a) The Commission shall meet from time to time at the request of the Chairperson and shall consider ways to enhance the public service in American life, including: 
(1) improving the efficiency and attractiveness of the Federal civil service; 
(2) increasing the interest among American students in pursuing careers in the public service; and 
(3) strengthening the image of the public service in American life. 
10(b) The Commission shall submit a report on its activities to the Director of the Office of Personnel Management and the President each year. 
Sec. 3. 
Administrative Provisions.
 (a) The members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, but may receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with sections 5702 and 5703 of title 5, United States Code. 
10(b) All executive agencies are directed, to the extent permitted by law, to provide such information, advice, and assistance to the Commission as the Commission may request. 
10(c) The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide the Commission with administrative services, staff support, and necessary expenses. 
Sec. 4. 
General.
 Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, except that of reporting to the Congress, which are applicable to the Commission, shall be performed by the Office of Personnel Management in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
George Bush
The White House,
June 29, 1990.