By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Each May, during Older Americans Month, we gratefully acknowledge the many contributions that older men and women have made -- and continue to make -- to our Nation. With faith, hard work, and an abiding love of freedom, they have helped to make the 20th century the American Century. Today they share a wealth of wisdom and experience with their families, neighbors, and co-workers. 
During this year's observance of Older Americans Month, we also celebrate the Silver Anniversary of the Older Americans Act. Signed into law in 1965, this important legislation reaffirmed the rights and dignity of America's senior citizens and established a framework for programs designed to help them remain active, independent, and productive members of society. 
The Older Americans Act created the Administration on Aging as the Federal focal point and advocate for our Nation's older citizens. Since the signing of the Act, a nationwide network of State and Area Agencies on Aging has emerged. These agencies are working to dispel myths about aging; to protect older Americans from exploitation and discrimination; and to provide a range of services and opportunities they need and deserve. Last year alone, 9 million older men and women participated in programs sponsored under the Act. The assistance provided through such programs includes transportation, meals, supportive in-home services, and employment. 
Thanks, in part, to the greater respect and well-being they enjoy as a result of such efforts, millions of older Americans are now remaining in the work force past the traditional "retirement age." Indeed, many are pursuing second careers, while others continue to enrich our communities and country through volunteer work. Whether they hold jobs, volunteer, or quietly devote their time to family and friends, older Americans are a great blessing to us, and all of them merit our appreciation and support. 
Thus, as we celebrate all that has been accomplished in the 25 years since the enactment of the Older Americans Act, let us renew our determination to ensure that this progress continues. We must continue to promote, in every community, programs that are both accessible to older persons and their families and flexible enough to meet their individual needs. 
In the coming decades, meeting this goal will become increasingly important. Americans 85 years of age and over will constitute one of the fastest-growing segments of our population, and, one American in five will be 65 or older. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 1990 as Older Americans Month. I call upon the American people to observe this month with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH