By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
For 50 years, Americans throughout the United States have welcomed participants in the International Visitors Program to their communities, offices, and homes. Through this program, which is sponsored by the United States Information Agency, current and future foreign leaders have been able to enjoy a professional and cultural orientation to oure country. The extraordinary generosity of the American people -- their willingness to share not only their knowledge and skills but also the fabric of their daily lives -- has ensured the remarkable success of the International Visitors Program. 
More than 800,000 Americans, in communities in every state, volunteer their time to ensure that program participants receive a warm welcome to the United States. These volunteers help to answer our guests' questions and, in turn, give our guests the opportunity to share with us important insights about their native lands. 
Through the International Visitors Program, our children have been able to learn more about other peoples and their cultures; American educators and business people have been able to establish valuable contacts with their foreign counterparts. Clearly, our national interest has been well served by the American tradition of hospitality and openness on which the program is based. 
Since its inception in 1940, the International Visistors Program has given participants from oppressed nations a chance to learn about freedom and self-government. In so doing, it has not only strengthened their sense of hope, but also helped them to acquire the knowledge and skills needed to promote the development of democracy in their own countries. In fact, a striking number of those individuals who have helped to bring about constructive change in Eastern Europe are former International Visitors. During their visits here, they saw democracy works, and they learned that political and economic freedom is the key to real and lasting peace and prosperity. 
The International Visitors Program, across the country, generous voluntary assistance of citizens across the country, has helped to promote greater understanding and cooperation between the United States and other nations. This foundation of mutual respect and goodwill will enable leaders in both the public and private sectors to continue building meaningful relationship with their counterparts around the world. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 248, has designated September 1990 as "International Visitors' Month" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this month. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim September 1990 as International Visitors' Month. I invite the people of the United States to observe this month with appropriate ceremonies and activites designed to recognize the International Visitors Program as a valuable means of promoting the people-to-people contacts that can lead to greater understanding and cooperation among nations. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second day of August, in the year of our Lord nuneteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH