By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The United States' ability to remain strong and prosperous in the incresingly technological, increasingly competitive global marketplace will be determined, in large part, by our success in harnessing the energy, creativity, and talent of all our citizens. A great many of those among the estimated 43 million Americans who have disabilities are both eager and able to help our country meet the challenges of our rapidly changing world. Recognizing this rich source of human potential and providing these individuals with greater opportunities to bring their knowledge, ideas, and commitment to the workplace is, therefore, not only a moral imperative, but also a crucial investment in our Nations future. 
Over the years, the United States has made significant progress in facilitating the movement of persons with disabilities into the mainstream of American life. We have opened doors to education and business, and we have developed effective rehabilitation and training programs that are helping millions of people with disabilities to become skilled, productive workers. Advances in technology and the removal of archetictural barriers and other obstacles in housing, transportation, and the workplace have also enabled Americans with disabilities to enjoy greater freedom, independence, and mobility. Americans with Disabilities Act prohibits employers covered by the act from discriminating against qualified applicants or employees on the basis of a disability; it guarantees persons with disabilities access to public accommodations, such as offices, hotels, and shopping centers; and it calls for improved access to transportation, State and local government services, and telecommunications as well. 
The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 reaffirms our national commitment to providing persons with disabilities equal opportunities to participate in the social and economic life of our country. During this year's observance of of National Disability Employment Awareness Month, we not only celebrate the enactment of this legislation, but also recognize the many contributions that persons with disabilities have made, and continue to make, in the Nation's workplace. 
The Congress, by Joint Resolution approved August 11, 1945, as amended has called for the designation of the month of October of each year as "National Disability Employment Awareness Month." This special month is a time for all Americans to join together in recognizing the unlimited potential of persons with disabilities and in renewing our determination to provide equal opportunities for them. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of October 1990 as National Disability Employment Awareness Month. I call upon the people of the United States to continue working to guarantee for Americans with disabilities equal employment opportunities and the full rights and privileges of citizenship. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twelfth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH