By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
On July 10, 1890, President Benjamin Harrison signed a proclamation delclaring Wyoming the 44th State of the Union. In the 100 years since that day, the people of Wyoming have built an outstanding record of achievement. 
From its eastern plains to the unspoiled heights of the Teton Mountain Range, Wyoming is a land of timeless beauty and untold natural wealth. It is also a land rich in history and in examples of environmental stewardship. Generations of Indian tribes -- including the Crow, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and Sioux -- cultivated and cherished the vast territory that is now Wyoming, establishing a rich cultural legancy that still graces the State today. The Nation's first national park, Yellowstone, is largely located in northwesterm Wyoming. Wyoming is also the home of our first national forest, Shoshone, and our first national monument, Devils Tower. Wyoming's vast wilderness areas, abundant wildlife, and other natural resources attract thousands of visitors to the State each year. 
These visitors can testify not only to the State's natural beauty, but also to the generous hospitality of the people of Wyoming. The State's history, however, also speaks highly of their character and spirit. Known as the Equality State, Wyoming was the first State in the Nation to allow women to vote and the first to elect a woman as Governor. During the past century, its citizens have demonstrated a strong commitment to the ideals that unit all Americans -- ideals of freedom, equality, justice, and tolerance. 
Since becoming a State in 1890, the people of wyoming have made substantial contributions to the social and economic development of the United States. Indeed, as they mark this special milestone in their State's history, all of us have reason to celebrate. 
In recongintion of Wyoming's contributions to the United States and in commemoration of its Centennial, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 271, has designated July 10, 1990, as "Wyoming Centennial Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim July 10, 1990, as Wyoming Centennial Day. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this ninthy day of July, in the year of our Loard nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH