By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
We Americans have been blessed with some of the most beautiful and accesible lakes, rivers, and coastal waters in the world. It is our good fortune to have the freedom and ability to use these areas for our personal recreation and enjoyment. 
Every year, increasing numbers of Americans purchase or rent boats and utilize our marine resources. The growing popularity of boating and related water sports is placing a great demand on the Coast Guard and other government agencies and voluntary organizations that srive to ensure the safety of the boating public. Thus, during National Safe Boating Week, in a concerted effort to save lives and protect our marine environment, dedicated men and women across the country work to give their fellow Americans the knowledge and skills they need to become safer and more responsible boaters. 
Offering wise counsel under the theme, "Know Before You Go," qualified volunteer and professionals are encouraging boaters to learn more about their craft and how to operate them safely. A pilot must have thorough knowledge of his or her vessel and the rules and courtesies of navigation. Every boater should know how to identify and operate safety equipment, and every pilot should carefully inspect and maintain such equipment. For example, life jackets should be routinely checked, tested, and properly fitted. All boaters should know the marine environment in which they will be operating, as well as the prevailing and forecasted weather conditions in the area. They must also know and accept their personal limitations, as well as their responsibility to obey the law and protect the safety of passengers and other boaters. 
Tragically, many boating accidents are the result of operator error -- error that is too often caused by fatigue, recklessness, or intoxication from alcohol or drugs. Far too many of these accidents claim the lives of innocent people. Far too many cause serious injuries, and they destroy pricelss marine resources. 
Every American who participates in boating and related sports such as fishing, hunting, and waterskiing should not only take the time to learn about safe boating procedures, but also practice them faithfully. Making an effort to "Know Before You Go" and remaining alert at all times on the water are two of the best ways to ensure a safe and rewarding boating experience. 
In recognition of the need for boating safety, the Congress, by joint resolution approved June 4, 1958 as amended, has authorized and requested the President to proclaim annually the week commencing on the first Sunday in June as "National Safe Boating Week." 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning June 3, 1990, as National Safe Boating Week. I invite the Governors of the States, Puerto Rico, and officials of other areas subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to provide for the observance of this week. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH