By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
During the 1990's, our Nation's strength and prosperity will largely depend--as they have in the past--upon a strong agricultural base. The abundance of low-cost, high-quality food and fiber produced by our farmers and ranchers is vital to sustaining the health and well-being of the American people, as well as the Nation's economic productivity and competitiveness. 
Tragically, however, those Americans engaged in agricultural production continue to bear a high rate of accidental death, injury, and illness. The costs in terms of lost productivity are enormous; the toll in personal suffering and loss is immeasurable. 
Far too many farming and ranching accidents involve children, who are at increased risk from workplace hazards. Compounding the severity of many farming-related injuries and illnesses is the geographic distance of farms and ranches from municipal emergency assistance. When an accident, fire, or other crisis occurs, the time that must be spent waiting for help can make a situation life-threatening. Injuries and death from occupational accidents and illnesses are all the more tragic because most are preventable.  
Advances in science and technology have made agricultural tools and chemicals safer, but these advances alone cannot eliminate all the safety risks of farming. As always, farmers and ranchers, workers, and their family members must take responsibility for implementing the steps necessary to establish and maintain a safe and healthy farming or ranching operation. 
Work-related injuries and illness often can be prevented through simple, sensible measures that involve little or no extra time, effort, or expense. These measures include the proper and consistent use of standard protective equipment; controlling exposure to toxic chemicals and gases; and training everyone on the ranch or farm in safety procedures and first aid. 
The busy harvest season.is a most fitting time to express our concern and our appreciation for the Nation's farmers and ranchers. During National Farm Safety Week, we renew our support for programs designed to protect their health and safety. All of these hardworking Americans should be able to reap the fruits of their labor with a sense of achievement and security. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week of September 16 through September 22, 1990, as National Farm Safety Week. I urge all persons who live and work on farms and ranches to make their safety and health--on the job, on the road, at home, and at leisure--a priority. I also urge them to protect their children, not only by instruction in safe practices but also by personal example. I call upon agricultural organizations to strengthen their support for community health and safety programs, and I encourage all Americans to take part in appropriate activities in observance of National Farm Safety Week as we acknowledge the many contributions that men and women in agriculture make to our Nation. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United  States of America the two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH