By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), an advisory council on the rural economic development policy of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the President's Council on Rural America ("Council"). The Council shall be composed of not more than twenty (20) members to be appointed by the President. 
(b) The President shall appoint a Chairman and Vice Chairman from among the members of the Council. 
Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Council shall advise the President and the Economic Policy Council on how the Federal Government can improve its rural economic development policy. 
(b) In the performance of its advisory duties, the Council shall conduct such continuing reviews and assessments of the Federal Government's rural economic development policy as deemed necessary or appropriate by the Council. 
Sec. 3 Administration. (a) The heads of executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Council such information with respect to rural economic development policy matters as the Council deems required for the purpose of carrying out its functions. 
(b) Members of the Council who are not otherwise officers or employees of the Federal Government shall serve without any compensation for their work on the Council. However, they shall be entitled to travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707). 
(c) To the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations, the Farmers Home Administration shall provide the Council with administrative services, facilities, staff, and other support services necessary for the performance of its functions. Funds for the operation of the Council shall be provided by the Department of Agriculture. 
(d) Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, except that of reporting to the Congress, which are applicable to the Council, shall be performed by the Secretary of Agriculture in accordance with guidelines issued by the Administrator of General Services. 
(e) The Council shall terminate 2 years from the date of this order unless sooner extended. 
George Bush
The White House,
July 16, 1990.