By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
1. Pursuant to Title V of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (the 1974 Act) 
et seq.
), the President may designate specified articles provided for in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTS) as eligible for preferential tariff treatment under the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) when imported from designated beneficiary developing countries. 
2. Pursuant to sections 501, 503(a), 504(a), and 604 of the 1974 Act 2463(a), 2464(a), and 2483), in order to subdivide and amend the nomenclature of existing provisions of the HTS for the purposes of the GSP, I have determined, after taking into account information and advice received under section 503(a), that the HTS should be modified to adjust the designation of eligible articles. In addition, pursuant to Title V of the 1974 Act, I have determined that it is appropriate to designate specified articles provided for in the HTS as eligible for preferential tariff treatment under the GSP when imported from any designated beneficiary developing country. I have also determined, pursuant to section 504(a) of the 1974 Act, that certain beneficiary countries should not receive preferential tariff treatment under the GSP with respect to certain articles designated as eligible for preferential treatment under the GSP. 
3. Section 604 of the 1974 Act authorizes the President to embody in the HTS the substance of the provisions of that Act, and of other acts affecting import treatment, and actions thereunder. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, acting under the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, including but not limited to Title V and section 604 of the 1974 Act, do proclaim that: 
(1) In order to provide benefits under the GSP to specified designated eligible articles when imported from any designated beneficiary developing country, the HTS is modified as provided in Annex I to this proclamation. 
(2)(a) In order to provide benefits under the GSP to specified designated eligible articles when imported from any designated beneficiary developing country, the Rates of Duty 1-Special subcolumn for each of the HTS subheadings enumerated in Annex II(a) and (b) to this proclamation is modified as provided in such Annex II(a) and (b). 
(b) In order to provide benefits under the GSP to specified designated eligible articles when imported from designated beneficiary developing countries and to provide that one or more countries should not be treated as beneficiary developing countries with respect to such eligible articles for purposes of the GSP, the Rates of Duty 1-Special subcolumn for each of the HTS subheadings enumerated in Annex II(c) to this proclamation is modified by inserting the symbol "A*" as provided in such Annex II(c). 
(3) In order to provide that one or more countries should not be treated as beneficiary developing countries with respect to certain eligible articles for purposes of the GSP, general note 3(c)(ii)(D) of the HTS is modified as provided in Annex III to this proclamation. 
(4) In order to provide for the continuation of previously proclaimed staged rate reductions on goods originating in the territory of Canada in the HTS subheadings in Annex I to this proclamation, effective with respect to goods originating in the territory of Canada which are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after the dates specified in Annex IV to this proclamation, the rate of duty in the HTS that is followed by the symbol "CA" in parentheses set forth in the Rates of Duty 1-Special subcolumn for each of the HTS subheadings enumerated in such Annex shall be deleted and the rate of duty provided in such Annex inserted in lieu thereof. 
(5) In order to provide for the continuation of previously proclaimed staged rate reductions for products of Israel in the HTS subheadings in Annex I to this proclamation, effective with respect to products of Israel entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after the dates specified in Annex V to this proclamation, the rate of duty in the HTS that is followed by the symbol "IL" in parentheses set forth in the Rates of Duty 1-Special subcolumn for each of the HTS subheadings enumerated in such Annex shall be deleted and the rate of duty provided in such Annex inserted in lieu thereof. 
(6) Any provisions of previous proclamations and Executive orders inconsistent with the provisions of this proclamation are hereby superseded to the extent of such inconsistency. 
(7) Except as provided for in paragraphs (4) and (5) of this proclamation, the amendments made by this proclamation shall be effective with respect to articles both: (i) imported on or after January 1, 1976, and (ii) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after August 1, 1990. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH