By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The history of Asian and Pacific Americans in the United States is a long and honorable one. Determined to uphold America's promise of freedom and opportunity for all, generations of Asian and Pacific men and women have helped this Nation to grow and prosper. A century and a half ago, many of these Americans contributed to the economic development of the United States through their labors on the plantations of Hawaii and in the mines of California. The important role played by many Asian and Pacific Americans in the building of the first transcontinental railroad is well documented; their determination and hard work are well known. With diligent effort and abiding faith in the American Dream, Asian and Pacific Americans have steadily advanced, earning ever greater respect and admiration from their fellow citizens. 
Today, men and women of Asian and Pacific ancestry continue to make many important contributions to our Nation. In science, commerce, education, and the arts, Asian and Pacific Americans are not only sharing with us their unique talents and ideas, but also setting high standards of achievement. For example, through their commitment to academic excellence and their superlative accomplishments in many areas of study, Asian and Pacific American students have provided a model for the Nation. 
Time and again throughout our Nation's history, Asian and Pacific Americans have demonstrated their dedication to ideals upon which the United States is founded. In times of war and in times of peace, they have faithfully defended the principles of freedom and representative government. They have worked for the advancement of human rights and democratic ideals around the world, and they have promoted greater appreciation for our system of self-government here at home. 
This month, all Americans join with our neighbors of Asian and Pacific descent as they celebrate the unique customs and traditions of their ancestral homelands. These customs and traditions have deeply enriched the wonderful heritage we share as a Nation. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the month of May 1990 as Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this month with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 7th day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH