By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Forty years ago, American men and women were asked to make a stand for freedom in behalf of those who lived in a country about which many of our young citizens probably knew very little. They did know that liberty was in jeopardy, and so these brave young men and women joined United Nations forces from around the world to stop communist aggression in the Republic of Korea. 
The immensity of what they undertook may have been best expressed by President Truman when he stated, "In the simplest terms, what we are doing in Korea is this: We are trying to prevent a third World War." Over 5,700,000 Americans were involved directly or indirectly in the conflict. The lives of 54,246 of our soldiers were lost, we saw 103,000 wounded, and 8,000 are still listed as missing in action -- all to prevent the world from plunging into the abyss of another World War. After 38 months of bitter combat, the victory was won, and the communists were driven out of the Republic of Korea. It was not only a victory for the South Koreans, but for all those who cherish liberty and self-determination. 
After World War II, the world was weary of war, and with an economic recovery in full bloom, many Americans gradually put the memory of the struggle for freedom in Korea behind them. The immense achievement in the cause of freedom was all but forgotten. 
Looking back at the Korean conflict, we recognize that our defense of freedom in this early struggle of the Cold War helped lay the foundation for the march of democracy we see today around the world. This new dawning of freedom is the marvelous legacy of all those who fought and died in the Korean War. Soon a magnificant monument -- 38 figures that will march silently toward a United States flag -- will be raised on the grounds of the Mall in Washington in tribute to all who served in the Korean War. 
On this 40th anniversary of the Korean War, we resolve as a Nation to sanctify and preserve the memory of all those who, through their courage, dedication, and sacrifice, helped secure the blessings of freedom for the people of the Republic of Korea and kept freedom's light burning brightly. 
In respect and recognition of those Americans who served in the armed forces during the Korean War, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 575, has requested the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United States to observe the day of June 25, 1990, as "Korean War Remembrance Day." 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim June 25, 1990, as Korean War Remembrance Day. I ask all Federal departments and agencies, interested groups, organizations, and individuals to fly the flag of the United States at half-staff on June 25, 1990, in honor of the Americans who died as a result of service in the Korean War. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH