By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Each day, millions of Americans demonstrate by their example that a disability need not be an obstacle to success. In our schools, in our places of business, and in public office, persons with disabilities are not only serving in positions of leadership and responsibility, but also setting standards of achievement for others. These individuals have a wealth of talent and ideas to share. Helping greater numbers of persons with disabilities to enter the mainstream of American life is, therefore, more than a moral imperative -- it is also a sound investment in our Nation's well-being. 
This week we recognize the dedicated professionals and volunteers who -- by providing various rehabilitative services -- are helping individuals with disabilities to participate more fully in the social, economic, and political life of our country. Through rehabilitative agencies and facilities throughout the United States, these men and women are enabling Americans with physical, mental, and emotional impairments to gain greater independence and self-confidence. 
On July 26, 1990, it was my privilege to sign into law the world's first comprehensive declaration of equality for persons with disabilities -- the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. Expanding upon the goals of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, this landmark legislation will ensure continued progress in efforts to help Americans with disabilities to live with greater freedom and independence. The Americans with Disabilities Act guarantees individuals with disabilities protection against discrimination; access to public accommodations, such as offices, hotels, and shopping centers; and improved access to transportation and telecommunications services. 
All Americans have reason to celebrate our Nation's progress in eliminating the physical and attitudinal barriers that have, in the past, prevented many persons with disabilities from entering the mainstream of American life. Rehabilitation services and related research and education programs have played an important role in this progress, and, this week, we salute all those dedicated and hardworking men and women who have devoted their energy and skills to this important work. 
In recognition of the many achievements of Americans with disabilities and in honor of all those who provide rehabilitative services for persons with disabilities, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 279, has designated the week of September 16 through September 22, 1990, as "National Rehabilitation Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of September 16 through September 22, 1990, as National Rehabilitation Week. I urge all Americans to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities, including educational programs designed to heighten awareness of rehabilitative services and of the ways such services enrich the lives of persons with disabilities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eleventh day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH