By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
This year, the National Sheriffs' Association marks half a century of service to law enforcement officials and to the American public. Incorporated on September 26, 1940, in the State of Ohio, the Association was established to form and perpetuate an efficient organization of the sheriffs of the United States and to raise the level of professionalism in the office of the sheriff, among sheriffs' deputies, and among other law enforcement personnel. 
The National Sheriffs' Association educates the public on law enforcement issues and maintains training programs for its members. It also represents the interests of sheriffs and other law enforcement officials before the executive and legislative branches of the Federal Government, as well as at the State and local levels of government. 
Today the organization represents more than 26,000 city and county law enforcement officials nationwide, including more than 1,700 sheriffs. It is a leader in the Nation's law enforcement community. 
In recognition of the 50th anniversary of the National Sheriffs' Association and in honor of all those individuals who serve their fellow Americans as sheriffs, the Congress, by S.J. Res. 264, has designated the week of June 24 through June 30, 1990, as "National Sheriffs' Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of June 24 through June 30, 1990, as National Sheriffs' Week. I call upon the people of the United States to honor all sheriffs during the week for their courageous and dedicated efforts to preserve the rule of law and ensure domestic tranquility. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH