By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
For most Americans, home is, as it should be, a beloved place of refuge, a place where one can enjoy the unconditional love and acceptance of his or her family as well as physical comfort and security. Tragically, however, for far too many of our citizens the blessings of home and family are marred by domestic violence. 
Each year, hundreds of thousands of Americans -- people of every age, gender, and race, and from every social, religious, and economic background -- are affected by domestic violence. Domestic violence is not just a series of angry exchanges or the kind of simple quarrels that occur occasionally in almost every family. Rather, it is a grave pattern of destructive behavior and a serious crime problem that inflicts untold harm upon individuals and families and weakens the very fabric of our society. 
Domestic violence involves not only spouses, but also some of our Nation's most vulnerable citizens. Its victims include abused and neglected children, elderly relatives, and persons with disabilities. In every case, domestic violence leaves deep physical and emotional scars, often haunting for years the children who suffer or simply witness its terrifying effects. All too often, domestic violence results in death. 
Fortunately, Americans throughout both the public and private sectors are working to assist the victims of domestic violence and to stop the vicious cycle of abuse and despair. Law enforcement officials at the Federal, State, and local level, health care providers, members of private voluntary organizations, the clergy, and other concerned citizens are engaged in efforts to prevent domestic violence and to provide shelter and counseling for its victims. Many communities now have special outreach programs and residential services for affected individuals and families. 
This month we recognize the generosity, compassion, and hard work of all those volunteers and professionals who are working to prevent domestic violence and to help its victims. We also reaffirm our support for their vital efforts. 
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 602, has designated October 1990 as "National Domestic Violence Awareness Month" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this month. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 1990 as National Domestic Violence Awareness Month. I urge all Americans to observe this month by learning more about the tragedy of domestic violence and how each of us can help bring an end to it. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fourth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH