By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Each year, more than 60 million Americans engage in recreational fishing. For these Americans, fishing is a peaceful and rewarding way to spend time alone or in the company of family and friends. For many other Americans, however, fishing is not only a deeply enjoyed activity, but also their livelihood. 
The members of our Nation's sport and commercial fishing industries make significant contributions to our economy and to our high standard of living. Commercial fishermen help to supply us with a variety of seafood. Each year, the recreational fishing industry contributes billions of dollars to the economy. 
Whether it is their full-time occupation or simply their favorite pastime, those Americans who fish on our Nation's lakes, streams, and other territorial waters have also made important contributions to environmental protection. Over the years, anglers have worked together with Federal, State, and local officials to protect and enhance fisheries and to encourage responsible fishing practices. Our Nation's public investment in fishery conservation, restoration, and enhancement is, in large part, paid for by fishermen through licensing, excise taxes, and user fees. These efforts help to ensure that our Nation's fisheries remain a bountiful and renewable natural resource. 
As anglers have clearly shown us, cooperation between individual citizens and government fosters a sense of shared pride and responsibility -- key elements of successful environmental stewardship. During National Fishing Week, we join in acknowledging the value of America's marine and freshwater resources, and we renew our commitment to protecting our fisheries for the sake of future generations. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week of June 4 through June 10, 1990, as National Fishing Week. I invite all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH