By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Our Nation's transportation system provides a vital link between different communities and industries. Facilitating the movement of people, goods, and services, its safety and efficiency are essential to our economic productivity and national security. 
In peacetime and in times of crisis, our Nation's transportation system serves as a pillar of our national defense. In fact, the civil transportation system provides some 85 percent of Department of Defense transportation needs for the mobilization of military forces. It also plays a vital role in the movement of people and supplies following natural disasters and other nonmilitary emergencies. 
The successful operation of this important system depends upon a sound infrastructure: safe and efficient roads, bridges, airports, seaports, railroad tracks, and mass transit facilities. Thus, the National Transportation Policy issued by the Department of Transportation in March includes plans for improving the Nation's transportation infrastructure. 
Efforts to strengthen America's transportation infrastructure will have many immediate and long-term benefits for the United States. They willnot only help to create jobs while enhancing the safety and convenience of our roads, air routes, and waterways, but also increase our competitive edge in the global market. During an age when our economy and national security can be affected by events around the world, these efforts assume additional urgency and importance. 
The United States currently boasts the best transportation system in the world. If it is to remain so, we must pool the energy and resources of both the public and private sectors. We must restructure our transportation system to give State and local governments the tools they need to address critical transportation requirements close to home. We must also harness the creativity and determination of transportation officials, lawmakers, business and community leaders, and concerned citizens in making U.S. transportation safer. Eliminating the dangers posed by the consumption of alcohol and drugs must continue to be a priority. 
Since the age of Fulton's steamboat and the Wright Brothers' success at Kitty Hawk, we have seen extraordinary progress in the field of transportation. The need for faster, safer, and more reliable transportation has been the mother of many inventions, from the automobile and jet engine to the swift-moving commuter train. Today, acknowledging its vital role in the Nation's economic development and defense, we remain firmly committed to progress in transportation technology. We also gratefully recognize those dedicated and hardworking men and women -- from the highway engineer to the air traffic controller -- who serve the travelling public. 
In recognition of the importance of transportation and of the millions of Americans who serve and supply our transportation needs, the Congress, by joint resolution approved May 16, 1957 has requested that the third Friday in May of each year be designated as "National Defense TransportationDay" and, by joint resolution approved May 14, 1962 that the week in which that Friday falls be proclaimed "National Transportation Week." 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Friday, May 18, 1990, as National Defense Transportation Day and the week of May 13 through May 19, 1990, as National Transportation Week. I urge the people of the United States to observe these occasions with appropriate ceremonies that will give full recognition to the individuals and organizations that build, maintain, and safeguard our country's transportation system. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 17th day of May, inthe year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH