By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Each November 11, on the anniversary of the signing of the armistice that ended World War I, we pause as a Nation to express our respect and gratitude for veterans of the United States Armed Forces. Today more than one million women stand among this group of distinguished Americans. Indeed, women have served our country with pride, skill, and courage in every overseas combat theater of every conflict since World War I. It is therefore fitting that we mark the week beginning on the anniversary of Armistice Day as a special time to honor America's women veterans. 
Serving in every branch of the Armed Forces and in a variety of challenging occupations, women have made vital contributions to our national security. In peacetime as well as in times of conflict and peril, they have demonstrated exemplary devotion to our country and to the principles for which it stands. Many have put themselves in harm's way to help ensure the success of our Nation's military operations. Some have been wounded, and others have given their lives, in the line of duty. 
During recent years, the role of women in the Armed Forces has grown. With it has grown public appreciation for the talent, patriotism, and expertise that female military personnel bring to their work. Last December, many Americans noted the important contribution women made to Operation Just Cause, the superbly planned and executed mission to defend the cause of freedom and democratic government in Panama. Today, on the other side of the world, women are among those American troops who are deterring aggression on the sands and off the shores of Saudi Arabia. To these women, and to those who have gone before them in service to our country, we pay a grateful tribute. 
In recognition of those women who have volunteered for service in the United States Armed Forces, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 307, has designated November 11 through November 17, 1990, as "National Women Veterans Recognition Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of November 11 through November 17, 1990, as National Women Veterans Recognition Week. I encourage all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH