By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
During the past few months, as the United States has welcomed home its Persian Gulf veterans, we have spoken frequently of heroes. It is a name we give to individuals of great faith and courage, to those who have inspired us by their selflessness and generosity and by their extraordinary devotion to duty. Today we honor a very special kind of hero: our Nation's dads. 
Being a good father begins with unconditional love and a lifelong commitment to others. Yet it also requires virtues that we associate with more celebrated heroes -- virtues such as strength, courage, and perseverance. Day after day, a father labors and sacrifices to protect and to provide for his family. Although his love might often go unspoken, it is revealed in countless other ways: in the long hours of work that are devoted to meeting the material needs of his children; in many late nights of quiet planning and worry; and in his constant efforts to teach, encourage, discipline, and guide. 
Between the daily demands and the everyday frustrations of parenting, a father might not feel like a hero, but in the eyes of his children he is very, very special. Youngsters treasure their father's attention and affection, and his presence alone gives them a warm sense of security and reassurance. In him they have a beloved champion and friend. 
While many heroes of youth are forgotten over time, a loving and responsible father is a lifelong role model for his children. His lessons have great and lasting value because they center around the things that give our lives dignity and meaning: love and faith, service and self-sacrifice. 
No medal could ever convey all of the honor and thanks that are due to our Nation's dads; thus, on this Father's Day, let us pray that God will reward them with His choicest blessings. And whether we do so in person, across the miles, or in loving memory, let each of us remember our own father with renewed appreciation and respect. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, in accordance with a joint resolution of the Congress approved April 24, 1972 do hereby proclaim Sunday, June 16, as Father's Day. I urge all Americans to observe that day with appropriate ceremonies as a mark of appreciation and abiding affection for their fathers. I direct government officials to display the flag of the United States on all Federal Government buildings, and I encourage all Americans to display the flag at their homes and other suitable places on that day. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH