By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
It is estimated that more than 250,000 children in the United States suffer from some form of arthritis. A chronic inflammatory disease of unknown cause, juvenile arthritis may attack the joints and major organs of the body, such as the heart, liver, spleen, and eyes. The disease, which can last a lifetime, often makes even simple tasks difficult and frustrating for its victims. 
In addition to the physical pain and limitations that it imposes on its young victims, juvenile arthritis can inflict emotional and financial hardship on entire families. This week, as our Nation reaffirms its commitment to the fight against juvenile arthritis, we commend the courage of the children who cope with the disease from day to day. We also applaud the strength and the resourcefulness of their families in dealing with the disease. 
Public awareness of juvenile arthritis and the importance of related scientific research is critical. Today the Federal Government and private voluntary organizations across the country are working together to educate Americans about juvenile arthritis while advancing studies of the disease. These cooperative efforts are evidence of our Nation's determination to conquer juvenile arthritis. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 142, has designated the week beginning July 28, 1991, as "National Juvenile Arthritis Awareness Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning July 28, 1991, as National Juvenile Arthritis Awareness Week. I urge all Americans -- and, in particular, government agencies and health care organizations -- to observe this week with appropriate programs and activities designed to promote public awareness of juvenile arthritis. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH