By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, including the National Nutrition Monitoring and Related Research Act of 1990 ("Act") (Public Law 101-445, October 22, 1990) and the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. 
Establishment. 
There is established the National Nutrition Monitoring Advisory Council ("Council"). The Council shall assist in carrying out the purposes of the Act, provide scientific and technical advice on the development and implementation of the coordinated program and comprehensive plan required by section 103 of the Act, and serve in an advisory capacity to the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Health and Human Services ("Secretaries") with respect to their responsibilities and functions under the Act. 
Sec. 2. 
Membership. 
(A) 
Composition. 
The Council shall consist of nine voting members. Five of the members shall be appointed by the President upon the recommendation of the Secretaries. Four of the members shall be appointed by the Congress, of whom one shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, one shall be appointed by the minority leader of the House of Representatives, one shall be appointed by the President pro tempore of the Senate, and one shall be appointed by the minority leader of the Senate. The Council shall also include the joint chairpersons of the Interagency Board for Nutrition Monitoring and Related Research as ex officio nonvoting members. 
(B) 
Selection Criteria. 
Each person appointed to the Council shall be selected solely on the basis of an established record of distinguished service and shall be eminent in one of the following fields: 
(1) public health, including clinical dietetics, public health nutrition, epidemiology, clinical medicine, health education, or nutrition education; 
(2) nutrition monitoring research, including nutrition monitoring and surveillance, food consumption patterns, nutritional anthropoligy, community nutrition research, nutritional biochemistry, food composition analysis, survey statistics, dietary-intake methodology, or nutrition status methodology; or 
(3) food production and distribution, including agriculture, biotechnology, food engineering, economics, consumer psychology or sociology, food-system management, or food assistance. 
(C) 
Particular Representation Requirements. 
The Council membership, at all times, shall include at least two representatives from each of the three areas of specialization listed in subsection (B), and shall have representatives from various geographic areas, the private sector, academia, scientific and professional societies, agriculture, minority organizations, and public interest organizations, and shall include a State or local government employee with a specialized interest in nutrition monitoring. 
(D) 
Chairperson. 
The Chairperson of the Council shall be elected from and by the Council membership. The term of office shall not exceed 5 years. If a vacancy occurs in the Chairpersonship, the Council shall elect a member to fill such vacancy. 
(E) 
Term of Office. 
The term of office of each of the voting members of the Council shall be 5 years, except that of the five members first appointed by the President, two members shall be appointed for a term of 2 years, two members for a term of 3 years, and one for a term of 4 years, as designated by the President at the time of appointment. Any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the term for which the predecessor of such member was appointed shall be appointed for the remainder of the term. No voting member shall be eligible to serve continuously for more than two consecutive terms. 
(F) 
Executive Secretary. 
The Administrator of Nutrition Monitoring and Related Research (if appointed under section 101(d) of the Act) shall serve as the Executive Secretary of the Council. 
Sec. 3. 
Functions of the Council. 
The Council shall: 
(a) provide scientific and technical advice on the development and implementation of all components of the coordinated program and the comprehensive plan; 
(b) evaluate the scientific and technical quality of the comprehensive plan and the effectiveness of the coordinated program; 
(c) recommend to the Secretaries, on an annual basis, means of enhancing the comprehensive plan and the coordinated programs; and 
(d) submit to the Secretaries annual reports that shall: (1) contain the components specified in paragraphs (b) and (c); and (2) be included in full in the biennial reports of the Secretaries to the President for transmittal to the Congress under section 102(b) of the Act. 
Sec. 4. 
Meetings. 
The Council shall meet on a regular basis at the call of the Chairperson, or on the written request of one-third of the members. A majority of the appointed members of the Council shall constitute a quorum. 
Sec. 5. 
Administration. 
(a) The heads of executive departments, agencies, and independent instrumentalities shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Council, upon request, with such information as it may require for the purposes of carrying out its functions. 
(b) Members of the Council shall serve without compensation for their work on the Council. While engaged in the work of the Council, members appointed from among private citizens of the United States may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service -5707). Appointed members of the Council may not be employed by the Federal Government. 
(c) To the extent provided by law and subject to the availability of appropriations, the Department of Agriculture shall provide the Council with such administrative services, funds, facilities, staff, and other support services as may be necessary for the performance of its functions. 
Sec. 6. 
General provision. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act that are applicable to the Council shall be performed by the Secretary of Agriculture, in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
Sec. 7. The Council shall terminate 10 years after the final comprehensive plan is prepared under section 103 of the Act. 
George Bush
The White House,
January 25, 1991.