By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Meeting our Nation's future energy needs is a task of immense proportions -- and utmost importance. To some American motorists, this challenge might be symbolized by long lines for gasoline and high prices at the pump. To others, it might be symbolized by lowering the thermostat during winter months. However, when it comes to building a secure energy future for the United States, there is more at stake than meets the eye. Safe, reliable, and affordable sources of energy are vital not only to our personal mobility and comfort but also to our Nation's productivity and security. America's utility companies and other energy providers supply the light, heat, and power that are needed to operate our factories and farms, our schools and defense installations, and other places of work. 
Continuing instability and conflict in some regions of the world underscore the need to use energy efficiently; to reduce our dependence on insecure sources of energy; and to develop more energy resources. Of course, we must skillfully balance efforts in these areas with our determination to maintain a growing economy. We must also balance them with our commitment to a cleaner, healthier environment. 
Our comprehensive National Energy Strategy calls for the wise and effective development of all of our Nation's energy resources, including coal, natural gas, and nuclear energy, as well as hydroelectric power and other forms of renewable energy. It also calls for the development of new technology for oil and gas exploration; increased use of alternative fuels; and aggressive conservation efforts. 
This month, the United States Department of Energy will be working to promote public awareness of our Nation's energy needs and the energy options that are available to us. With strong leadership at all levels of government -- and with the sustained cooperation of business, industry, energy providers, and concerned consumers -- we can implement the sound energy policies and practices that are essential to America's well-being. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 1991 as Energy Awareness Month. I urge all Americans to observe this month with appropriate educational programs and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH