By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
From the days of Mindaugas to modern times, Lithuanians have cherished the freedom that is the common inheritance of all mankind. Thus, on February 16, 1918, when they realized their long-denied dream of independence, the people of Lithuania celebrated the renewal of a centuries-old national tradition and the promise of a future free from foreign domination. 
Tragically, however, Lithuania's independence was short-lived. Under secret protocols to the infamous Molotov-Ribbentrop pact, signed by the foreign ministers of the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany in 1939, the independent Baltic States of Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia were consigned to foreign occupation and conquest. In June 1940, less than 1 year later, Red Army troops invaded Lithuania and its neighbors, effectively annexing those nations to the Soviet Union. 
The United States has never recognized the forcible incorporation of Lithuania and the other Baltic States into the U.S.S.R., and we have consistently supported the Baltic peoples' right to determine and control their own future. On this 73rd anniversary of Lithuanian independence, we reaffirm our support for the just aspirations of the Lithuanian people. Their current struggle to assert their legitimate rights through the peaceful efforts of democratically elected representatives compels our sympathy and support. 
The Lithuanian people have used the democratic process in what they hoped would be a peaceful, disciplined effort to gain recognition of their right to independence. Soviet authorities responded in January with the use of force, killing at least 20 people and injuring hundreds of others. The United States has condemned as inexcusable that action against a peaceful and democratically elected government, and we have called on the Soviets to eschew further use of intimidation and violence in the Baltic States. We urge the Soviets to pursue constructive negotiations with the elected representatives of the Lithuanian people who have expressed their will overwhelmingly through the nationwide referendum of February 9. 
The courageous peoples of the Baltic States have acted with dignity and restraint in the face of grave challenges, and the thoughts and prayers of the American people remain with them. 
To demonstrate our common cause with freedom, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 606, has designated February 16, 1991, as "Lithuanian Independence Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim February 16, 1991, as Lithuanian Independence day. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities, reaffirming our support of the just aspirations of all peoples for liberty and self-determination. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of February, in the year of our Lord ninetten hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH