By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Since we introduced our first National Drug Control Strategy in 1989, our Nation has made significant progress in the fight against illicit drug use. Through education and prevention programs in both the public and private sectors, we have taken important strides in reducing the demand for drugs. Indeed, recent figures from the National Institute on Drug Abuse show that, over an 18-month reporting period, overall drug use in the United States fell by slightly more than 10 percent. Cocaine use fell even more dramatically, by about 29 percent. Through more vigorous law enforcement and interdiction efforts, we have also lessened the deadly trade of drug traffickers. They are no match for a united, determined America. 
However, while these and other trends are encouraging, we know that we are only just beginning to win the war against drugs. That is why I urge all Americans to join in observing this National Red Ribbon Week for a Drug-Free America. Through the widespread display of the red ribbon, let us demonstrate our refusal to tolerate illicit drug use and our resolve to build a safer, healthier future for the United States. Indeed, with this simple gesture, each of us can set a positive example for others while sending a clear and unequivocal message to the merchants of death who deal drugs -- a message that says "This scourge will stop!" 
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 340, has designated the period beginning October 19, 1991, and ending October 27, 1991, as "National Red Ribbon Week for a Drug-Free America" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the period of October 19 through October 27, 1991, as National Red Ribbon Week for a Drug-Free America. I urge all Americans to observe this week by supporting community substance abuse prevention efforts. I also encourage every American to wear a red ribbon during this week as an expression of his or her commitment to a healthy, drug-free lifestyle. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH