By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The peoples of the United States and Greece enjoy a rich friendship based on strong ties of kinship and culture -- ties fortified by our common devotion to the ideals of freedom and democracy. Our shared values and mutual interests make the celebration of Greek independence on March 25 a significant event for all Americans. 
Although we celebrate on this occasion events that took place just 170 years ago, the values shared by the peoples of Greece and the United States are rooted far deeper in history. Indeed, it was the ancient Greeks who, with their profound observations of human nature and their seminal experiments in civil order and justice, enkindled the light of democratic thought among men. Our Nation's Founders were well-schooled in classical languages and Greek literature, and the ideas of Solon, Plato, Aristotle, and other Greek philosophers and statesmen greatly influenced their own. Indeed, in his historic treatise on the Rights of Man, Thomas Paine wrote: "What Athens was in miniature, America will be in magnitude. The one was the wonder of the ancient world; the other is becoming the admiration and model of the present." His words reflect the inspiration and insight that this Nation's Founders derived from the ancient Greek city-states as they worked to establish an enduring representative democracy in America. 
Widely regarded as the "cradle of democracy," Greece stands today as a strong ally of the United States, aligned with us by its commitment to freedom and human rights. As partners in the NATO Alliance, we have worked together to defend democratic ideals and to promote the collective security of Europe. Recently Greece also cooperated with the United States and other nations in the historic coalition effort to uphold the rule of law and to liberate Kuwait from ruthless aggression. The people of Greece can take pride in their country's role in this endeavor, carried out in enforcement of resolutions of the United Nations Security Council. 
Today, as we join in commemorating the 170th anniversary of Greek independence, we celebrate the continued friendship between the Greek and American peoples. We also give thanks, knowing that the light of democratic ideals continues to grow in strength and brilliance around the world. 
In recognition of the 170th anniversary of Greek Independence, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 59, has designated March 25, 1991, as "Greek Independence Day: A National Day of Celebration of Greek and American Democracy" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim March 25, 1991, as Greek Independence Day: A National Day of Celebration of Greek and American Democracy. I urge all Americans to join in appropriate ceremonies and activities in honor of the Greek people and Greek independence. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 25th day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH