By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The men and women who work in America's agricultural sector make a vital contribution to our Nation's well-being. By providing consumers with a variety of high-quality food and fiber at reasonable costs, they help to keep our work force strong and healthy and, in so doing, help to maintain the Nation's economic productivity and competitiveness. Because we count on farmers and ranchers for so much, both as individuals and as a Nation, it is fitting that we observe National Farm Safety Week -- a concerted public awareness campaign aimed at promoting their health and safety. 
Over the years much has been done to improve the safety of agricultural production. Advances in science and technology and increased attention to avoiding safety risks have made farms and ranches safer places to work. Moreover, dedicated professionals and volunteers have been working together to promote health and safety in rural communities. These efforts are reflected by a welcome downturn in farm accident rates. 
Unfortunately, however, while important strides have been made in reducing the risks of farming and ranching, agricultural production remains one of our most hazardous industries, with an accident death rate that is more than four times the average of all industries. More must be done to reduce the toll of farm-related accidents. 
Most accidents on the Nation's farms and ranches can be prevented by sensible measures that involve little extra time, effort, or expense. For example, farmers and ranchers can reduce their risk of serious injury and illness by following manufacturers' instructions on the use of chemicals and machinery and by utilizing protective apparel and safety equipment when the job calls for it. Children should be kept away from hazardous machinery, and all family members and employees should be trained in safety procedures and first aid. 
For generations, the men and women who work on our Nation's farms and ranches have endured long hours of tough, physical labor. However, they have continually met the challenges of their vocation with determination and pride -- and with unparalleled success. During National Farm Safety Week, let us resolve to make excellence in health and safety another one of America's great farming traditions. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week of September 15 through September 21, 1991, as National Farm Safety Week. I urge all who live and work on our Nation's farms and ranches to make the preservation of personal health and safety an integral part of their daily activities. I also urge them to protect their children, not only by instruction in safety habits, but also by setting an example of carefulness and by avoiding needless risks. I also call upon organizations that serve agricultural producers to strengthen their support for rural health and safety programs, and I encourage all Americans to observe this week with appropriate activities as we express our appreciation for the many contributions that men and women in agriculture make to our Nation. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH