By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
People are our Nation's most precious asset, and America's senior citizens are no exception. These men and women constitute a wellspring of acquired wisdom and skill, and it is fitting that our celebration of Older Americans Month, 1991, should have as its theme, "Older Americans: A Great Natural Resource." 
Older Americans have charted the course of our Nation throughout most of this century. While many youngsters view the Great Depression and World War II as the stuff of schoolbooks, it was today's senior citizens who experienced these and other defining moments in American history and, through them, helped to shape the world in which we live. With faith, courage, and countless sacrifices on both the home front and the field of battle, these Americans joined our Nation's allies in defeating the tyrannical forces that threatened to destroy an entire continent during World War II. The industry and creativity of today's older Americans later gave America the technological edge needed to put the first man on the moon. Indeed, their ingenuity and hard work have enabled the United States to make many great and historic strides in business, agriculture, and health care. 
Today older Americans continue to merit our respect and gratitude. Whether they quietly enrich the lives of their families and friends or engage in paid employment and voluntary community service, senior citizens are an invaluable source of knowledge and experience. Today many older Americans are remaining in the work force well past the traditional retirement age, and more and more seniors are pursuing second careers. In fact, older Americans are as much a part of our future as they are a part of our past: the contributions that they continue to make in this century will benefit our families and our Nation well into the next. 
Over the years older Americans have taught us many powerful lessons about duty, faithfulness, and honor. With those lessons in mind, let us renew our determination to help our senior citizens live with the independence, comfort, and security that they need and deserve. We can begin by reaffirming our support for those public agencies, private organizations, and individuals who work, each and every day of the year, to dispel myths about aging; to protect older Americans from discrimination and exploitation; and to provide long-term health care and other services for seniors with special needs. Their efforts should be a compelling reminder of the respect and gratitude that each of us owes to our society's eldest members. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the month of May 1991 as Older Americans Month. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this month with appropriate ceremonies and activities in honor of our Nation's senior citizens. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH