By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The fact that it shattered the stillness of a Sunday morning, a time when millions of Americans were preparing to attend church services or to enjoy the quiet of their homes, only compounded the shock, grief, and outrage of our Nation. At 7:55 a.m. on December 7, 1941, naval air forces of the Imperial Japanese Combined Fleet attacked United States military installations at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. American forces in Guam, the Philippines, and elsewhere in the Pacific also suffered brutal assaults. By the end of the day, the U.S. Pacific Fleet was virtually devastated. Scores of American fighter planes were also destroyed. More than 2,400 Americans died at Pearl Harbor alone -- among them, 68 civilians listed as dead or missing. 
As we mark the 50th anniversary of the attack on Pearl Harbor, we will honor, in a special way, all those military personnel who perished on that Day of Infamy and, indeed, throughout World War II. Yet we also do well to remember the service of Federal civilian employees. Immediately after the bombing of Pearl Harbor, Federal civilian employees responded to rescue and reconstruction missions with distinction and valor. Over the next 4 years, these dedicated men and women continued to make vital contributions to the Allied war effort, performing critical administrative and technical duties in support of military operations. These tasks included aircraft and ship maintenance and repair, medical services, supply operations, and civil engineering functions to support and maintain camps, posts, and stations. Federal civilian employees played an instrumental role in salvaging naval vessels damaged at Pearl Harbor, returning them to action before the end of World War II. 
Our Federal civilian employees were joined in their efforts, of course, by millions of American workers in private industry. Half a century ago, every farm, factory, mine, and shipyard in the country bustled with activity directed toward the war effort. 
In recognition of the patriotism, leadership, and exemplary performance of Federal civilian employees at Pearl Harbor and throughout World War II, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 198, has designated December 4, 1991, as "Federal Civilian Employees Remembrance Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day. On December 4, the National Park Service will coordinate ceremonies in Hawaii to honor the contributions of Federal civilian employees. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim December 4, 1991, as Federal Civilian Employees Remembrance Day. I call upon all Americans to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities in honor of the Federal civilian employees who made tremendous sacrifices for our country during the attack on Pearl Harbor and throughout the course of World War II. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this third day of December, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH