By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
In commemorating the anniversary of the birth of the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., we celebrate the cause to which he decided his life. More than a struggle to end bigotry and segregation in the United States -- although that alone would be ample reason to honor him -- Martin Luther King's great purpose was an effort "to make real the promises of democracy." 
With characteristic eloquence, Dr. King told his countrymen, "In spite of the difficulties and frustrations of the moment, I still have a dream. It is a dream rooted in the American dream. I have a dream that one day this Nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed." By working to fulfill for all Americans the promise of life, liberty, and happiness expressed in the Declaration of Independence, Martin Luther King helped to bring our country closer to the ideal envisioned at its founding. 
Inspiring Martin Luther King's appeals for racial equality was a strong faith -- faith in Almighty God, faith in the future, and faith in the ultimate triumph of truth and justice. A gifted preacher who often quoted from Scripture, King believed that America must uphold its promise of liberty and opportunity for all because prejudice and discrimination obscure the reality that all people are made in the image of their Creator. 
The faith that animated Martin Luther King's efforts to uphold the God-given dignity and worth of every individual was nurtured in him from childhood. The son of a Baptist minister, King was clearly inspired by the example of his parents and their quiet nobility and determination. 
The family is still, as King once observed, "the main educational agency of mankind." Thus, we must begin with the family if we are to ensure that our children "live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character." We give our children the tools needed to build a bright future when we give them love and attention and help them to develop a sense of personal responsibility and self-esteem, as well as an appreciation for the value of learning and hard work. Finally, we must instill in our children a sense of hope and higher purpose, helping them to recognize -- as did Martin Luther King -- the power of prayer and the rewards of basic human goodness. As Dr. King once said, "Intelligence plus character -- that is the goal of true education. The complete education gives one not only power of concentration but worthy objectives upon which to concentrate." 
Throughout his adult life, Martin Luther King concentrated on efforts to overcome bitterness and division and to fulfill the American dream for all members of our society. He taught all of us important lessons about faith, sacrifice, perseverance, and optimism. Today we recall those lessons and renew our determination to promote racial harmony and equality of opportunity in the United States. 
By Public Law 98-144, the third Monday in January of each year has been designated as a legal public holiday. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim Monday, January 21, 1991, as the Martin Luther King, Jr., Federal Holiday. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of January, in the year of our Lord neneteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH