By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Visiting Nurse Associations have provided high-quality, affordable health care services to homebound Americans for more than 100 years. The dedicated men and women who carry on the work of these independently operated, voluntary associations make it possible for patients to obtain needed care while remaining in familiar, comfortable surroundings, among family and friends. In so doing, visiting nurse professionals bring to their work a warm, personal touch as well as valuable knowledge and skills. 
Over the years Americans have come to equate Visiting Nurse Associations with reliable home health care for persons recuperating from illness or injury, for persons incapacitated by physical or mental disabilities, for the terminally ill, and for those suffering from chronically disabling diseases. These associations offer a wide range of medical care and support services -- including specialized nursing, nutritional counseling, homemaker and home health aide services, as well as speech, physical, and occupational therapy. As nonprofit, community-based organizations, Visiting Nurse Associations not only stay attuned to the particular needs of individuals and families but also help to mitigate rising health care costs. 
This week we gratefully recognize the important contribution that Visiting Nurse Associations make to our Nation's health care system. We also honor the generous, hardworking men and women who serve their fellow Americans through these valued organizations. 
The Congress, by Public Law 101-468, has designated the week beginning February 17, 1991, as "National Visiting Nurse Associations Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning February 17, 1991, as National Visiting Nurse Associations Week. I invite all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH