By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 3603 of the Financial Reports Act of 1988 (22 U.S.C. 5351 et seq.), section 274A(d) (2) and (4) of the Immigration and Nationality Act ("Act"), as amended (8 U.S.C. 1324a(d) (2) and (4)), sections 4561, 6082, and 9561 of title 10 of the United States Code, the Act of June 14, 1987, ch. 2, 30 Stat. 11, 36 (16 U.S.C. 473), section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and in order to: (1) delegate functions concerning discussions with foreign governments to improve access by U.S. banking and financial organizations; (2) delegate authority concerning a national employment verification system; (3) delegate authority concerning the development of requirements and regulations for a uniform military ration; and (4) correct the title of the Nez Perce National Forest, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Functions Concerning Discussions with Foreign Governments to Improve Access by U.S. Banking and Financial Organizations. The functions vested in the President by section 3603 of the Financial Reports Act of 1988 (22 U.S.C. 5353) are hereby delegated to the Secretary of the Treasury. This delegation is not in derogation of, and shall not affect, the existing authorities of the United States Trade Representative. 
Sec. 2. Authority Concerning the Employment Verification System. The authority conferred upon the President by section 274A(d)(4) of the Act, to undertake demonstration projects of different changes in the requirements of the employment verification system, is delegated to the Attorney General. Demonstration projects shall be conducted consistent with the restrictions in section 274A(d)(2) of the Act and shall not extend for a period longer than 3 years. This authority may be redelegated. 
Sec. 3. Authority, Requirements, and Regulations Concerning a Uniform Military Ration. (a) Authority. The Secretary of Defense is hereby designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action by the President, the authority conferred upon the President by section 4561(a), sections 6082 (a) and (d), and section 9561(a) of title 10 of the United States Code. Under this authority the Secretary may prescribe a uniform military ration applicable to the Army, Navy, and Air Force. 
(b) Requirements. (1) Components and Quantities. The components and the quantities of the uniform military ration shall reflect military member preferences and satisfy nutritional requirements. (2) Monetary Value. The monetary value of the uniform military ration shall be equal to the monetary value of the ration in effect on the day before the effective date of this order. (3) Index. The Secretary of Defense shall establish, as of the effective date of this order, an index composed of a representative market basket of items equal in value to the ration value. Subsequent to the effective date of this order, and based upon the changing prices of food components in the index, the Secretaries of the military departments shall periodically redetermine the monetary value of the ration. The Secretary of Defense shall review the index periodically, but not less than once a year, to ensure that it reflects changes in food service technology, scientific advances in nutrition, the requirements of the Armed Forces of the United States, and the food preferences of the enlisted members. Increases or decreases in the monetary value of the ration that result from changes in the composition of the food items making up the index shall not exceed 2 percent of the ration value annually. 
(c) Regulations. Under regulations of the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Navy, and the Secretary of the Air Force are authorized, for their respective military departments, to prescribe the issue of special allowances and such special or supplemental rations, defined by component, quantity, or monetary value, as they may consider appropriate. Executive Order No. 11339 of March 28, 1967, is hereby revoked. 
Sec. 4. Correction of Title of the Nez Perce National Forest. Executive Order No. 854 of June 26, 1908, is hereby amended by retitling the "Nezperce National Forest" the "Nez Perce National Forest." 
Sec. 5. This order shall take effect immediately. 
George Bush 
The White House, 
November 20, 1991. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:51 a.m., November 21, 1991.]