By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
For more than two decades, the School Breakfast Program has helped to promote the health and well-being of our Nation's schoolchildren. By helping to ensure that youngsters enter the classroom with the energy and stamina needed to be eager and attentive students, this important child nutrition program has also contributed to the success of America's educational system. 
The School Breakfast Program began in 1966 as a pilot project that provided funding for meals for schoolchildren in low-income areas and in areas where children had to travel long distances to school. In 1975, the Program was permanently established, and funding was made available to all schools. Today approximately four million children in more than 38,000 schools receive nutritious morning meals through the School Breadfast Program. 
Parents and educators across the country endorse the School Breadfast Program because they believe that it improves youngsters' ability to learn. For the same reason, States have sought to expand the Program in their schools, and some mandate participation. 
Federal officials are proud to work with State leaders, educators, food service professionals, parents, and others in making the School Breakfast Program available to our children. Their cooperative efforts are a wonderful example of a successful partnership between Federal and State governments and local communities. They also play an important role in meeting our first National Education Goal: ensuring that, by the year 2000, all children in America start school ready to learn. 
In recognition of the School Breakfast Program, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 98, has designated the week of March 4 through March 10, 1991, as "National School Breadfast Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
NOW, THREREFORE, I, GEORGE BUSH, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week of March 4 through March 10, 1991, as National School Breakfast Week. I urge all Americans to observe this week in honor of those individuals at the Federal, State, and local levels whose efforts contribute so much to the success of this valuable program. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH