By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
We Americans take great pride in the vigilance, courage, and patriotism of the men and women who serve in our United States Armed Forces. Yet, in large part, the extraordinary spirit of our Nation's service members reflects that of the families who stand behind them. Thus, while we salute our troops for their outstanding efforts to preserve peace and to protect the vital interests of the United States, on this occasion we honor in a special way our Nation's military families. Each day, these Americans share in the hard work of freedom. 
The military family is a very large and special one. It includes tens of thousands of wives, husbands, parents, siblings, and children. Located in every State and in countries around the globe, these families are the heart of the American defense community. They have stood together in times of trial and uncertainty; they have opened their arms to newcomers and to neighbors in need; and they have offered steady moral support to our forces stationed far from home. Brought together by the service of their loved ones, these families embody the love, faith, and devotion to freedom that have sustained our men and women in uniform, even through this Nation's darkest hours. 
Whether they live on bases here at home or at posts in Europe, the Pacific, and elsewhere, military families are united by common experience -- including the experience of hardship and sacrifice. For example, reassignments often require service members and their dependents to move, leaving behind schools, friends, and jobs. Although such moves may consist of relocation to unfamiliar towns or even to foreign lands, military families weather the challenges with perseverance and pride. 
Because they recognize the risks that their loved ones have accepted in the line of duty, and because a service member's assignments can entail lengthy absences from home, military families also cope with long hours of separation and worry. During the past year, our Nation was reminded of all that military families have endured over the years when more than 500,000 service personnel were activated, both here and abroad, to take part in Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm, as well as during U.S. humanitarian efforts in Operations Provide Comfort in northern Iraq and Sea Angel in Bangladesh. The stoicism and the patriotism displayed by America's military families during the conflict in the Persian Gulf uplifted and inspired our entire country. More recently, hundreds of American military families responded with exemplary courage and composure when they were evacuated from their homes in the Philippines following the eruption of Mount Pinatubo. 
Throughout our Nation's history, military families have demonstrated their pride in service and their profound faith in the principles on which the United States is founded. Today we assure these Americans of our abiding gratitude, respect, and support. 
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 215, has designated November 25, 1991, as "National Military Families Recognition Day" and has authorized the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim November 25, 1991, as National Military Families Recognition Day. I urge all Americans to join in honoring America's military families on that day. Finally, I call up Federal, State, and local officials, as well as concerned private organizations, to observe the day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH