By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Each Thanksgiving, when we Americans count our many blessings, among the first to come to mind is the abundance of high-quality foods that we enjoy. The quantity and variety of goods that fill our Nation's grocery stores are unparalleled -- a shining testament to the ingenuity and productivity of the American farmer. Yet while U.S. farmers are the most enterprising and efficient in the world, millions of other people in both urban and rural communities play important roles in the production and distribution of U.S. agricultural goods. During National Farm-City Week, we salute all of these hardworking Americans. 
Our Nation's farmers are assisted in their efforts by millions of people, many of whom work in urban areas -- researchers who develop improved methods and tools for farming; meteorologists who chart climatic conditions and weather patterns; and the manufacturers and suppliers of equipment, seeds, and fertilizers. The miracle of American farming is also made possible by those who transport and process raw agricultural goods; by government inspectors who help ensure their quality; and by wholesalers who distribute and retailers who sell finished farm products to consumers. The concerted efforts of all of these Americans have enabled the United States to make the most of its God-given resources. 
Today America's farms and cities are linked more closely than ever before, as more and more farmers supply not only food but also raw materials for industrial use. Advances in science and technology have enabled manufacturers to convert agricultural commodities into biodegradable plastics, alternative fuels, and fuel additives, as well as printing ink and newsprint. Industrial use of farm products is creating new opportunities for American agriculture to diversify and to enhance its productivity while boosting its competitive position in world commerce. 
American agriculture has long been a source of strength and pride for the United States, and we owe a tremendous debt of gratitude to all those who help bring forth food and fiber from the rich, fertile land with which we have been blessed. Thus, it is fitting that our celebration of National Farm-City Week take place during the 7-day period that ends on Thanksgiving. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week of November 22 through November 28, 1991, as National Farm-City Week. I encourage all Americans, in rural and urban communities alike, to join in recognizing the accomplishments of our farmers and all those hardworking individuals who cooperate in producing the abundance of agricultural goods that strengthen and enrich the United States. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH