By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Providing means of irrigation, transportation, and energy production, the waterways of the United States have played an instrumental role in the development of American agriculture, commerce, and industry. Over the years, however, our country's most beautiful and accessible waterways have also become important centers of recreation. Indeed, it is estimated that, during this year alone, more than 19 million recreational boats will navigate America's lakes, rivers, and coastal waters. 
While boating can be a wonderful source of recreation, improperly handled watercraft can be dangerous or even deadly. Tragically, approximately 900 persons die each year in boating-related accidents on our Nation's waterways. Because most accidents can be prevented, the United States Coast Guard and other government agencies are working with volunteer organizations around the country to educate the boating public and to make safety the first priority of all who use the Nation's waterways. 
During National Safe Boating Week, proclaimed annually at the start of the summer boating season, recreational boaters are urged to accept the responsibility to "Know Before You Go." Every pilot should have thorough knowledge of his or her vessel and the rules and courtesies of navigation. All boaters should know the marine environment in which they will be operating, as well as the prevailing and forecasted weather conditions in the area. Making safety the first priority also requires that boaters be prepared to respond, immediately and effectively, to any hazardous situation that may arise; it requires that all persons using watercraft be equipped with life jackets; and, of course, it requires that no one operate a watercraft while under the influence of alcohol or drugs. 
By emphasizing safety first, we can put tragic boating accidents behind us and enjoy more fully the beauty and excitement of the open water. 
In recognition of the need to promote safe boating practices, the Congress, by joint resolution approved June 4, 1958 as amended, has authorized and requested the President to proclaim annually the week commencing on the first Sunday in June as "National Safe Boating Week." 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning June 2, 1991, as National Safe Boating Week. I encourage the Governors of the States and Puerto Rico and officials of other areas subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to provide for the observance of this week. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH