By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
America has demonstrated to the world that when individuals have the freedom to pursue their dreams and to put their talents and ideas to work, we all benefit. As more and more nations recognize the value of free enterprise and private initiative -- and reform their economies according to market-oriented principles -- the United States must act to strengthen its competitiveness. 
If the United States is to remain a leader in the expanding global marketplace, we must redouble our efforts to produce high quality goods and services. We must also maximize the talent and potential of our people, our most important resource. Every American must have the knowledge and skills -- including the technical skills -- that are needed to enjoy full, productive lives in our rapidly changing world. That is one reason why we have launched AMERICA 2000, our national strategy to achieve excellence in education. 
I am confident that this strategy will succeed because we Americans are a proud and determined people. Those qualities are exemplified by minority entrepreneurs, who have long been recognized for their determination to overcome obstacles and to create better lives for themselves and for their children. This week, we salute the more than 1 million minority business owners across the United States for helping to build a stronger America. These hardworking men and women are contributing to the economic development of their communities, and they are creating jobs and opportunities for their neighbors. For example, according to the U.S. Department of Commerce, minority businesses generate more than $78.5 billion annually in gross receipts. More than 250,000 of these businesses have paid employees, providing jobs for an estimated 845,000 people. 
This week, as we celebrate the achievements of our Nation's minority entrepreneurs, we also reaffirm our commitment to promoting equal opportunity, high quality education, and effective job training for all Americans. In so doing, we will enhance our Nation's strength and productivity while creating more vibrant communities and improved standards of living for every citizen. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week of September 22 through September 28, 1991, as Minority Enterprise Development Week. I encourage the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this third day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH