By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
As the "window" to the brain, the human eye joins our other senses in opening the mind to the outside world, enabling us to appreciate more fully the wonders of creation and their wide range of form, color, size, and motion. While the gift of sight is a tremendous blessing, it is one that we sometimes, all too easily, take for granted. Hence, during Save Your Vision Week, we reflect on both the importance of good vision in our daily lives and the vital role of prevention, early detection, and treatment in the fight against vision loss. 
Each year thousands of Americans suffer from vision loss that might have been prevented. One simple and effective way to prevent such tragedies is through periodic eye examinations by a licensed professional. Regular eye exams can provide an early warning of eye disease and allow an eye care professional to initiate prompt treatment. 
Glaucoma is one potentially blinding eye disease that can be controlled and treated effectively if detected early. Despite this fact, however, glaucoma remains a leading cause of blindness in the United States. People who run the highest risk of developing the disease -- in particular, black Americans over the age of 40 and all persons over the age of 60 -- are urged to obtain an eye examination at least every two years. 
Periodic eye examinations are absolutely critical for persons with diabetes. Although diabetic eye disease is treatable, it remains a leading cause of blindness because many people with diabetes fail to have their eyes examined at least annually. 
Children also need early and regular eye examinations. Even the healthiest of youngsters may have an unsuspected visual problem that, if left untreated, could interfere with his or her play and learning and eventually cause permanent vision loss. A routine checkup can identify a disorder in time for effective treatment. 
Eye safety is a must at any age. Children should be instructed early and often in the basic principles of eye safety. Both in the home and in the workplace, Americans should wear a face mask, goggles, or safety glasses when working with chemicals or machinery that might be dangerous to the eyes. Individuals who engage in contact sports and other potentially hazardous athletic activities are urged to wear protective eyewear whenever possible, and contact lens wearers should always clean, store, and handle their lenses carefully and in accordance with the directions of their eye care professional. Through simple yet important steps like these, we can protect our precious gift of sight. 
To encourage Americans to cherish and to protect their vision, the Congress, by joint resolution approved December 30, 1963 (77 Stat. 629; has authorized and requested the President to proclaim the first week in March of each year as "Save Your Vision Week." 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of March 1 through March 7, 1992, as Save Your Vision Week. I urge all Americans to participate in this observance by making eye care and eye safety an important part of their lives. I also invite eye care professionals, members of the communications media, and other concerned parties to join in activities that will help make Americans more aware of the steps that they can take to protect their vision. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set may hand this twenty-fifth day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH