By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Millions of young Americans who have wisely decided to stay off drugs, out of gangs, and in school are living testimony to the effectiveness of Drug Abuse Resistance Education (Project D.A.R.E.). Together with their parents, teachers, and teams of dedicated law enforcement personnel, these children are taking a firm stand against illicit drug use while also demonstrating their determination to make the most of their God-given talent and potential. At the same time, by setting examples of personal responsibility and respect for authority, graduates of Project D.A.R.E. are making an important contribution to the success of our National Drug Control Strategy. 
Led by experienced law enforcement officers, Project D.A.R.E. equips students with basic facts about drugs and alcohol and about the devastating effects that these substances can have on the mind and body. In order that children might avoid the dangers of trying drugs and alcohol, D.A.R.E. also equips participants with practical decision-making skills, helping them to recognize that actions have consequences and that personal accountability and self-control are signs of strong moral character and maturity. 
By befriending students and by helping them to grow in self-confidence, the law enforcement officers who conduct the D.A.R.E. program build strong bonds of mutual understanding and trust between themselves and young people in their communities. Yet the success of Project D.A.R.E. also depends on the cooperation of parents, who are encouraged to talk with, and to listen to, their children -- and to set positive examples for them. This partnership among parents, children, law enforcement officers, and educators continues to change lives for the better in all 50 States and at Department of Defense Dependent Schools around the world. 
Through innovative public-private partnerships such as Project D.A.R.E., our Nation has made significant progress in reducing the demand for drugs -- a priority of our National Drug Control Strategy. Since we launched this strategy in 1989, overall drug use in the United States has dropped by more than 10 percent. Statistics cited by the Partnership for a Drug-Free America show a decline of 48 to 56 percent in drug use by juveniles between the ages of 13 and 17, and three separate studies indicate that adolescent use of cocaine dropped even more dramatically -- by 63 percent -- between 1988 and 1991. These trends are encouraging, and they offer reason to believe that our National Drug Control Strategy will continue to bear fruit. 
Because Project D.A.R.E. brings drug abuse prevention to the classroom, it not only meets a key objective of our National Drug Control Strategy but also complements America 2000, our national strategy to achieve excellence in our schools. One of the six National Education Goals that form the basis of America 2000 calls for every school in the United States to be free of drugs and violence. If we are to achieve that goal, all Americans must work together to create safe, drug-free communities where learning can happen. Reaching an estimated 25 million young Americans every year, Project D.A.R.E. provides an outstanding example of cooperation among parents, educators, law enforcement personnel, business owners, and civic and religious leaders. On this occasion, we celebrate their efforts and congratulate each of the young Americans who have chosen to say "No!" to drugs and "Yes!" to opportunity through education. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 295, has designated September 10, 1992, as "National D.A.R.E. Day" and has requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim September 10, 1992, as National D.A.R.E. Day. I encourage all Americans to observe this day with appropriate programs and activities in celebration of Drug Abuse Resistance Education and in honor of the many dedicated professionals and volunteers who have made it possible. I also invite Americans to observe this occasion by joining in community-based partnerships in support of America 2000 and our National Drug Control Strategy. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-sixth day of August, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth. 
GEORGE BUSH