By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended a commission on America's urban families, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. 
Establishment.
 (a) There is established the National Commission on America's Urban Families ("Commission"). The Commission shall be composed of up to eight members appointed by the President. 
(b) The President shall appoint a Chairman and Co-chairman from among the members of the Commission. The Chairman shall appoint an Executive Director. 
Sec. 2. 
Functions.
 (a) The Commission shall: 
 -- examine the current condition of urban families; 
 -- consider how existing government policies and programs support or weaken the urban family structure; 
 -- evaluate the potential for integrating the delivery of government services in ways to strengthen urban families; 
 -- identify State, local, and Federal programs that have been successful in preserving and strengthening urban families; 
 -- analyze ways to improve private/nonprofit efforts to preserve and strengthen urban families; and 
 -- provide appropriate recommendations for government policies and programs and for actions by other institutions to strengthen families living in urban areas. 
(b) The Commission shall make its report to the President on or before December 31, 1992. 
Sec. 3. 
Administration.
 (a) The heads of executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Commission such information as it may require for the purpose of carrying out its functions. 
(b) Members of the Commission shall serve without any compensation for their work on the Committee. However, they shall be entitled to travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized for persons serving intermittently in the Government service -5707 and 7(d)). The Executive Director shall be compensated at a rate of pay not to exceed the maximum allowable under section 7(d)(1)(A) of the Federal advisory Committee Act, as amended. 
(c) The Department of Health and Human Service shall provide the Commission with administrative services, facilities, staff, and other support services necessary for the performance of its functions. Funds for the operation of the Commission shall be provided by the Department of Health and Human Services. 
(d) Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, which are applicable to the Commission, except that of reporting to the Congress, shall be performed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services in accordance with guideline issued by the Administrator of General Services. 
(e) The Commission shall terminate 30 days after submitting its report. 
George Bush
The White House,
March 12, 1992.