By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
1. Pursuant to sections 501 and 502 of the Trade Act of 1974, Public Law 93-618, as amended and 2462) ("Trade Act"), and having due regard for the eligibility criteria set forth therein, I have determined that it is appropriate to designate Ethiopia as a beneficiary developing country for purposes of the Generalized System of Preferences ("GSP"). 
2. Pursuant to section 504(a)(1) of the Trade Act (a)(1)), the President may withdraw, suspend, or limit the application of the duty-free treatment accorded under the GSP with respect to any article or any country after considering the factors set forth in sections 501 and 502(c) of the Trade Act and 2462(c)). Accordingly, after taking into account the factors set forth in sections 501 and 502(c) of the Trade Act, I have determined that it is appropriate to withdraw the duty-free treatment accorded under the GSP to imports of sulfanilic acid provided for in subheading 2921.42.24 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States ("HTS"). 
3. Section 604 of the Trade Act authorizes the President to embody in the HTS the substance of the provisions of that Act, and of other acts affecting import treatment, and actions thereunder. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, acting under the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including but not limited to sections 501, 502(c), 504(a)(1), and 604 of the Trade Act, do proclaim that: 
(1) General note 3(c)(ii)(A) to the HTS, listing those countries whose products are eligible for benefits of the GSP, is modified by inserting "Ethiopia" in alphabetical order in the enumeration of independent countries. 
(2) In order to withdraw the duty-free treatment accorded under the GSP to sulfanilic acid, the HTS is modified as provided in the Annex to this proclamation. 
(3) For HTS subheadings 2921.42.26 and 2921.42.28, effective with respect to goods originating in the territory of Canada which are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after January 1, 1993, in the Rates of Duty 1-Special subcolumn of the HTS, the HTS is modified by deleting the symbol "(CA)" and the duty rate preceding it, and inserting in the parentheses following the "Free" rate the symbol "CA," in alphabetical order. 
(4) Any provisions of previous proclamations and Executive orders inconsistent with the provisions of this proclamation are hereby superseded to the extent of such inconsistency. 
(5) The modifications to the HTS made by paragraphs (1) and (2) of this proclamation shall be effective with respect to articles that are: (i) imported on or after January 1, 1976, and (ii) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 15 days after the date of publication of this proclamation in the Federal Register. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third day of December, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth. 
GEORGE BUSH