By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act 
et seq
.), the National Emergencies Act 
et seq
.), section 1114 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended section 5 of the United Nations Participation Act of 1945, as amended and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, in view of United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 757 of May 30, 1992, and in order to take additional steps with respect to the actions and policies of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) and the national emergency described and declared in Executive Order No. 12808, 
I, GEORGE BUSH, President of the United States of America, hereby order: 
Section 1. Except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses which may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the effective date of this order, all property and interests in property of the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), and property and interests in property held in the name of the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia or of the former Government of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of United States persons, including their overseas branches, are blocked. 
Sec. 2. The following are prohibited, notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the effective date of this order, except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses which may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order: 
(a) The importation into the United States of any goods originating in, or services performed in, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), exported from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) after May 30, 1992, or any activity that promotes or is intended to promote such importation; 
(b) The exportation to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), or to any entity operated from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), or owned or controlled by the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), directly or indirectly, of any goods, technology (including technical data or other information controlled for export pursuant to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 C.F.R. Parts 768, 
et seq
.), or services, either (i) from the United States, (ii) requiring the issuance of a license by a Federal agency, or (iii) involving the use of U.S.-registered vessels or aircraft, or any activity that promotes or is intended to promote such exportation; 
(c) Any dealing by a United States person related to property originating in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) exported from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) after May 30, 1992, or property intended for exportation from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) to any country, or exportation to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) from any country, or any activity of any kind that promotes or is intended to promote such dealing; 
(d) Any transaction by a United States person, or involving the use of U.S.-registered vessels and aircraft, relating to transportation to or from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), the provision of transportation to or from the United States by any person in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) or any vessel or aircraft registered in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), or the sale in the United States by any person holding authority under the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended 
et seq
.), of any transportation by air that includes any stop in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro); 
(e) The granting of permission to any aircraft to take off from, land in, or overfly the United States, if the aircraft, as part of the same flight or as a continuation of that flight, is destined to land in or has taken off from the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro); 
(f) The performance by any United States person of any contract, including a financing contract, in support of an industrial, commercial, public utility, or governmental project in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro); 
(g) Any commitment or transfer, direct or indirect, of funds, or other financial or economic resources by any United States person to or for the benefit of the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) or any other person in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro); 
(h) Any transaction in the United States or by a United States person related to participation in sporting events in the United States by persons or groups representing the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro); 
(i) Any transaction in the United States or by a United States person related to scientific and technical cooperation and cultural exchanges involving persons or groups officially sponsored by or representing the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), or related to visits to the United States by such persons or groups other than as authorized for the purpose of participation at the United Nations. 
Sec. 3. Nothing in this order shall apply to (i) the transshipment through the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) of commodities and products originating outside the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) and temporarily present in the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) only for the purpose of such transshipment, and (ii) activities related to the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR), the Conference on Yugoslavia, or the European Community Monitor Mission. 
Sec. 4. Any transaction by any United States person that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited. 
Sec. 5. For the purposes of this order: 
(a) The term "United States person" means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, juridical person organized under the laws of the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States, and vessels and aircraft of U.S. registration; 
(b) The term "the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro)" means the territory of Serbia and Montenegro; 
(c) The term "the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro)" includes the government of the newly constituted Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the Government of Serbia, and the Government of Montenegro, including any subdivisions thereof or local governments therein, their respective agencies, instrumentalities and controlled entities, and any persons acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of any of the foregoing, including the National Bank of Yugoslavia, the Yugoslav National Army, and the Yugoslav Chamber of Economy, the National Bank of Serbia, the Serbian Chamber of Economy, the National Bank of Montenegro, and the Montenegrin Chamber of Economy. 
Sec. 6. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by the International Emergency Economic Powers Act and the United Nations Participation Act, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. Such actions may include prohibiting or regulating payments or transfers of any property, or any transactions involving the transfer of anything of economic value, by the any United States person to the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), any person in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), or any person or entity acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by any of the foregoing. The Secretary of the Treasury may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of the United States Government, all agencies of which are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order, including suspension or termination of licenses or other authorizations in effect as of the date of this order. 
Sec. 7. All delegations, rules, regulations, orders, licenses, and other forms of administrative action made, issued, or otherwise taken under Executive Order No. 12808 and not revoked administratively shall remain in full force and effect under this order until amended, modified, or terminated by proper authority. 
Sec. 8. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against the United States, its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person. 
Sec. 9. (a) This order is effective immediately. 
(b) This order shall be transmitted to the Congress and published in the Federal Register. 
George Bush
The White House,
June 5, 1992.