By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The strength of the American family is the strength of America itself, for the family is the primary institution to shape our citizens and leaders and to ensure that our most cherished ideals are passed from one generation to the next. On this occasion we offer a special salute to America's military families, who provide so much love and support to our courageous men and women in uniform. The patriotism and sacrifices of these families have uniquely fortified our Nation's military and, in so doing, helped the United States to remain the freest, strongest, and most prosperous country in the world. 
While America's military families trace their roots to a variety of cultural, ethnic, and religious backgrounds, they share a profound sense of duty and an equally strong love of country. These families are also united by the singular challenges of military life, from frequent relocations to long periods of separation and worry. By standing steadfast in support of their members in uniform and of each other, military families provide inspiring examples of generosity, courage, and pride. Who can forget the tremendous public show of support for our troops as they fought to liberate Kuwait and to turn back aggression in the Persian Gulf -- support led by the spouses, children, parents, grandparents, and siblings of our active duty and Reserve forces. 
This year has seen new challenges for our service members and their families as many American military personnel have deployed around the globe in support of urgent humanitarian missions and long-standing defense interests. The end of the Cold War has also presented challenges a we work to restructure our defense forces and to maintain an efficient, mobile, and effective military capacity. Yet, just as they have met every challenge in the past, America's military families continue to face these and other developments with resourcefulness, resilience, and pride. Each of them reserves our admiration and support. 
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 503, has designated November 23, 1992, as "National Military Families Recognition Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim November 23, 1992, as National Military Families Recognition Day. I urge all Americans to join in honoring United States military families around the world, who defend our freedom ad security. I also call on Federal, State, and local government officials and private organizations to observe this day with appropriate programs and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, an of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth. 
GEORGE BUSH