By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to establish in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended an advisory commission on the management of the Agency for International Development (AID) programs, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. 
Establishment.
 There is established the "President's Commission on Management of the Agency for International Development (AID) Programs" ("Commission"). The Commission shall comprise five members from the private sector appointed by the President. The President shall designate the Chairman of the Commission from among its members. 
Sec. 2. 
Functions.
 The Commission shall advise the Administrator of AID in the review and implementation of recommendations provided in the report to the President issued by the previous commission on management of AID programs (which was established by Public Law 101-513 and which terminated on May 16, 1992). The Commission shall also report to the Deputy Secretary of State on the progress made in implementing the recommendations. 
Sec. 3.
 Administration.
 (a) To the extent permitted by law, the Administrator of AID shall provide funding for the Commission. 
(b) Members of the Commission shall serve without any compensation for their work on the Commission. While engaged in the work of the Commission, they shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service -5707). 
(c) The Administrator of AID shall provide on a remibursable basis such administrative services as the Chairman of the Commission may request and the Administrator of AID deems appropriate. 
(d) To the extent permitted by law, the Chairman may, through the Administrator of AID, procure temporary and intermittent services. 
Sec. 4.
 General Provisions.
 (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amendded, that are applicable to the Commission, shall be performed by the Administrator of AID in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by the Admiistrator of General Services. 
(b) The Commission shall terminate not later than September 30, 1992. 
George Bush
The White House,
August 4, 1992.