By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
In a thriving free enterprise system such as ours, which provides consumers with a wide range of goods and services from which to choose, the most successful businesses are those that display a strong commitment to customer satisfaction. Today foreign competition as well as consumer demands are requiring greater corporate efficiency and productivity. If the United States is to remain a leader in the changing global economy, highest quality customer service must be a personal goal of every employee in business and industry. 
A business built on customer service understands and anticipates the customer's needs. It designs goods and services to meet those needs and builds products that perform to customer expectations. It then packages them carefully, labels them correctly, sells them at a fair price, delivers them as scheduled, and follows up, as necessary, to satisfy the customer. This kind of commitment to service leads to customer loyalty and to genuine improvements at the bottom line. 
A businesses will do a better job of providing high quality goods and services by listening to its employees and by empowering them with opportunities to make a difference. Customer service professionals work in the front lines where a firm meets its customers; where supply meets demand. With responsive policies and procedures and with simple courtesy, customer service professionals can go a long way toward ensuring customer satisfaction and eliciting the next round or orders and purchases. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 166, has designated the week of October 4 through October 10, 1992, as "National Customer Service Week;; and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of October 4 through October 10, 1992, as National Customer Service Week. I invite all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs to observe this week with appropriate programs and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America two hundred and seventeenth. 
GEORGE BUSH