By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
For centuries, groves of the Giant Sequoia have stimulated the interest and wonder of those who behold them. The Giant Sequoia is a tree that inspires emotion like no other and has mystically entered the hearts of humanity everywhere. Ancestors of Giant Sequoia trees have existed on Earth for more than 20 million years. Naturally occurring old-growth Giant Sequoia groves located in the Sequoia, Sierra, and Tahoe National Forests in California are unique national treasures that are being managed for biodiversity, perpetuation of the species, public inspiration, and spiritual, aesthetic, recreational, ecological, and scientific value. 
This Nation's Giant Sequoia groves are legacies that deserve special attention and protection for future generations. It is my hope that these natural gifts will continue to provide aesthetic value and inspiration for our children, grandchildren, and generations yet to come. 
So as to promote greater appreciation and awareness of our Giant Sequoia groves, such groves in the Sequoia, Sierra, and Tahoe National Forest should continue to be managed by the Secretary of Agriculture as unique objects of beauty and antiquity for the benefit and inspiration of all people. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim that naturally occurring old-growth Giant Sequoia groves within the Sequoia, Sierra, and Tahoe National Forests in the State of California shall be managed, protected, and restored by the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Forest Service, to assure the perpetuation of the groves for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future generations. The Secretary of Agriculture is directed to delineate the location of such Giant Sequoia groves, as set forth in the Sequoia National Forest Mediated Settlement Agreement, and subsequently to provide the Secretary of the Interior with a list of the designated groves and with a description of the boundaries of each of the groves. The Secretary of the Interior is hereby directed, to the maximum extent permitted by law, to segregate immediately and subsequently to withdraw the designated groves from all forms of location and entry under the general mining laws, and from any disposition under the mineral and geothermal leasing laws and laws pertaining to the disposal of mineral material, subject to valid existing rights. 
The designated Giant Sequoia groves shall not be managed for timber production and shall not be included in the land base used to establish the allowable sale quantities for the affected national forests. The designated Giant Sequoia groves shall be protected as natural areas with minimal development. Consistent with the best scientific information available, the Secretary of Agriculture shall assure that any proposed development shall provide for aesthetic, recreational, ecological, and scientific value. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Converse Basin Grove shall be managed as set forth in the Sequoia National Forest Mediated Settlement Agreement. 
This proclamation is not intended to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by a party against the United States, its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 14 day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth. 
GEORGE BUSH