By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
As we Americans once again observe National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, we can be heartened by the progress that we have made in fighting this disease. In recent years, our knowledge of breast cancer has increased significantly. Researchers continue to develop new and better means of treatment, and expanded access to breast cancer screening is enabling more and more women to benefit from early detection and intervention. 
While such trends are encouraging, the National Cancer Institute reports that as many as 180,000 American women will be diagnosed as having breast cancer this year. Although most women who are treated for breast cancer in its early stages can be cured, this disease remains the second leading cause of death by cancer among American women. Hence, this month we recognize the importance of ensuring that every woman is informed about breast cancer and about the importance of screening, early detection, and treatment. 
Women can take an active roll against breast cancer through monthly self-examination and through clinical examinations and mammography as recommended by their physicians. Mammography is invaluable: many breast cancers can be seen on a mammogram up to 2 years before they could be otherwise detected by a woman or her physician. 
Because access to such screening it vital for all women, I am pleased to report that third-party reimbursement for mammograph is increasing, allowing more women to benefit from this potentially lifesaving procedure. Through Medicare, the Department of Health and Human Services helps to cover the cost of screening mammography for women age 65 and older. Private insurers offer coverage for this procedure, and a major effort is underway to inform employers how business can provide screening mammography. 
In addition to encouraging employees, insurers, and health care providers to voluntarily develop policies that expand access to affordable mammography, the Federal Government is also helping to lead the way in research against breast cancer. In a program that has the potential to save many lives in the future, women who are at high risk for breast cancer are participating in the first large-scale study to prevent the disease. We look forward to significant results from the Women's Health Initiative, the largest-ever research effort directed specifically at women. This comprehensive program will target the major causes of illness and death in older women, including breast cancer. In addition, the President's Cancer Panel this year established a Special Commission on Breast Cancer to undertake a comprehensive review of all aspects of the breast cancer problem and to make recommendations on how to accelerate progress against this disease. 
Together with the Federal Government, private researchers, health care providers, members of breast cancer support groups, and other concerned Americans are working hard to ensure that women and their physicians are aware of each important advance in breast cancer research. This joint effort is saving lives, and during National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, we reaffirm our commitment to ensuring that it continues. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 303, has designated October 1992 as "National Breast Cancer Awareness Month." 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 1992 as National Breast Cancer Awareness Month. I invite the governors of the States and the appropriate officials of all other areas under the jurisdiction of the United States to issue similar proclamations. I also encourage health care providers and other interested organizations and individuals to observe this month with appropriate programs and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth. 
GEORGE BUSH