By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
More than a vast repository of marine and wildlife and other natural wonders, the Gulf of Mexico is also a major factor in the economic life of the United States. This year, we reaffirm our commitment to protecting and preserving this magnificent body of water. 
The Gulf of Mexico enchants because it is full of life and beauty. A vital habitat for shorebirds and for much of the Nation's migratory waterfowl, the Gulf region is replete with colors and sounds that are as rich and varied as each evening's sunset. Indeed, few sights can compare to that of majestic whooping cranes winging over Gulf waters to wintering grounds on the Texas coast. Many a visitor has been delighted to watch fishing boats dock at the bustling ports of Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama -- only to unload the day's catch and to prepare for another turn at sea. Even amateur anglers know the thrill of casting into Gulf waters, and millions of vacationing Americans have enjoyed the region's warm, sandy beaches. 
While we celebrate the natural splendor and the unique cultural heritage of the Gulf coast and barrier islands, we also acknowledge their vital role in our Nation's economy. The fishing, naval defense, and other maritime industries that employ millions of people from Brownsville, Texas, to Key West, Florida, also help to promote the economic prosperity and security of our entire country. Natural gas and oil extracted from the Gulf floor are vital sources of energy for our homes, farms, factories, and automobiles. A significant percentage of all U.S. shipping passes through ports on the Gulf of Mexico, and each year the region generates billions of dollars in revenue through travel and tourism. To ensure that the Gulf remains a viable natural resource for future generations, the United States is determined to reconcile legitimate needs for economic development with our responsibility to protect its beaches, estuaries, fisheries, and wildlife. 
The Congress, by Public Law 102-178, has designated 1992 as the "Year of the Gulf of Mexico" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this year. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim 1992 as the Year of the Gulf of Mexico. I invite all Americans to observe this year with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of January, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH