By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to coordinate and enhance governmental efforts to promote integrity and efficiency and to detect and prevent fraud, waste, and abuse in Federal programs, the establishment of two Councils of Federal Inspectors General and appropriate Federal officials is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. 
Establishment of the President's Council on Integrity and Efficiency. 
 
(a) There is established as an interagency committee the President's Council on Integrity and Efficiency (PCIE). 
(b) The PCIE shall be composed of the following members: 
 (1) The Deputy Director for Management of the Office of Management and Budget, who shall be Chairperson of the Council; 
 (2) All civilian Presidentially appointed Inspectors General whose of fices were established in the Inspector General Act of 1978 and subsequent amendments; 
 (3) The Vice Chairperson of the Executive Council on Integrity and Efficiency; 
 (4) The Controller of the Office of Federal Financial Management; 
 (5) The Associate Deputy Director for Investigations of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; 
 (6) The Director of the Office of Government Ethics; 
 (7) The Special Counsel of the Office of Special Counsel; and 
 (8) The Deputy Director of the Office of Personnel Management. 
(c) The Chairperson may, from time to time, invite other officials to participate in meetings of the PCIE. 
(d) The Chairperson shall, to the extent possible, convene meetings of the PCIE monthly. 
Sec. 2. 
Establishment of the Executive Council on Integrity and Efficiency. 
 
(a) There is established as an inter-entity committee the Executive Council on Integrity and Efficiency (ECIE). 
(b) The ECIE shall be composed of the following members: 
 (1) The Deputy Director for Management of the Office of Management and Budget, who shall be Chairperson of the Council; 
 (2) All civilian statutory Inspectors General not represented on the PCIE; 
 (3) The Vice Chairperson of the PCIE; 
 (4) The Controller of the Office of Federal Financial Management; 
 (5) The Associate Deputy Director for Investigations of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, or his or her designee; 
 (6) The Director of the Office of Government Ethics, or his or her designee; 
 (7) The Special Counsel of the Office of Special Counsel, or his or her designee; and 
 (8) The Deputy Director of the Office of Personnel Management, or his or her designee. 
(c) If any individual simultaneously serves as a Presidentially appointed Inspector General and as Inspector General of an entity represented on the ECIE, that individual may send a designee to ECIE meetings. 
(d) The Chairperson may, from time to time, invite other officials to participate in meetings of the ECIE. 
(e) The Chairperson or, in his or her absence, the Controller of the Office of Federal Financial Management shall, to the extent possible, convene meetings of the ECIE monthly. 
Sec. 3. 
Functions of the PCIE and the ECIE. 
 
(a) The Councils shall continually identify, review, and discuss areas of weakness and vulnerability in Federal programs and operations to fraud, waste, and abuse, and shall develop plans for coordinated, Governmentwide activities that address these problems and promote economy and efficiency in Federal programs and operations. These activities will include interagency and inter-entity audit and investigation programs and projects to deal efficiently and effectively with those problems concerning fraud and waste that exceed the capability or jurisdiction of an individual agency or entity. The Councils shall recognize the preeminent role of the Department of Justice in law enforcement and litigation. 
(b) The Councils shall develop policies that will aid in the establishment of a corps of well-trained and highly skilled Office of Inspector General staff members. 
(c) The individual members of the Councils should, to the extent permitted under law, adhere to professional standards developed by the Councils and participate in the plans, programs, and projects of the Councils. 
(d) The creation and operation of the Councils shall neither interfere with existing authority and responsibilities in the relevant agencies and entities nor augment or diminish the statutory authority or responsibilities of individual members of either Council. 
Sec. 4. 
Responsibilities of the Chairperson of the PCIE and the ECIE. 
 
(a) The Chairperson may appoint a Vice Chairperson from the PCIE and the ECIE to assist in carrying out the functions of each Council. 
(b) The Chairperson shall, in consultation with the members of each Council, establish the agenda for PCIE and ECIE activities. 
(c) The Chairperson shall, on behalf of the Councils, report to the President on the activities of the Councils. The Chairperson shall, as appropriate, advise the Councils with respect to the President's consideration of the Councils' activities. 
(d) The Chairperson shall provide agency and entity heads with summary reports of the activities of the Councils. 
(e) The Chairperson shall establish, in consultation with members of the Councils, such committees of the PCIE and the ECIE as deemed necessary and appropriate for the efficient conduct of PCIE and ECIE functions. The Chairperson may invite members of the ECIE to serve on each PCIE Committee. Similarly, the Chairperson may invite members of the PCIE to serve on each ECIE Committee. 
(f) The Chairperson shall convene joint meetings of the PCIE and the ECIE at least annually. 
Sec. 5. 
Administrative Provisions. 
 
(a) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall provide the PCIE and the ECIE with such administrative support as may be necessary for the performance of the functions of the Councils. 
(b) The heads of agencies and entities represented on the PCIE and the ECIE shall provide their representatives with such administrative support as may be necessary, in accordance with law, to enable the representatives to carry out their responsibilities. 
Sec. 6. 
Revocation. 
Executive Order No. 12625 of January 27, 1988, entitled "Integrity and Efficiency in Federal Programs," is revoked. 
George Bush
The White House,
May 11, 1992.