By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Now that Marxist-Leninist regimes around the world have crumbled, now that dictators from Baghdad to Havana have found themselves isolated in a world that is growing freer by the day, one of the greatest risks we face as a Nation is that of forgetfulness. While we rightly celebrate improved prospects for international cooperation and peace, we must not forget that the preservation of freedom requires eternal vigilance and resolve. Only by remembering the lessons of the past can we ensure our liberty and security in the future; only by honoring the memory of those who fought and died for our country can we fully appreciate our way of life. One group of Americans who will never forget the price that has been paid for our freedom is the Gold Star Mothers, women whose sons and daughters have died in service to our country. 
There is little that we can offer in consolation to America's Gold Star Mothers. Yet, while it is beyond our earthly power to alleviate their great loss, we can show these women that their children's sacrifices are remembered and appreciated, not only on occasions such as Memorial Day, but also throughout the year. 
Every time we cast our ballot at the voting booth, every time we join in prayer at our place of worship, we Americans enjoy the liberty and self-government that have been preserved for us by the courage and sacrifices of others. Every time we say good night to our children and grandchildren, knowing that they need no longer fear the nightmare of global nuclear conflict, we enjoy the peace and security that have been attained by the blood of American patriots. So much that we cherish in our daily lives has been made possible by our fallen service members -- truly, we cannot express our respect and gratitude often enough. 
It is fitting that, in addition to honoring the memory of our fallen military personnel, we also salute the women who nurtured them. Through their children, our Nation's Gold Star Mothers have made a profound contribution to the United States and, yes, to the freedom of millions of people around the world. Today many Gold Star Mothers continue to serve our Nation through generous volunteer work in behalf of veterans, through efforts to promote civic education and patriotism among youth, and through countless other means of community service. On this occasion, we proudly acknowledge their courage and example and reaffirm America's commitment to promoting democracy and respect for human rights, which are the only sure foundation for lasting freedom, justice, and peace among nations. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 115 (June 23, 1936), designated the last Sunday in September as "Gold Star Mother's Day" and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim September 27, 1992, as Gold Star Mother's Day. I call on all government officials to display the United States flag on government buildings on this day. I also urge the American people to display the flag and to hold appropriate meetings in their homes, places of worship, or other suitable places, as a public expression of the sympathy and the respect that our Nation has for its Gold Star Mothers. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth. 
GEORGE BUSH