By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Since Juliette Gordon Low founded the first troop on March 12, 1912, millions of Girl Scouts have embarked on great adventures in learning -- adventures that have combined the joys of self-discovery with the rewards of friendship and voluntary service to others. By fostering the social, spiritual, and intellectual development of its members, the Girl Scouts of the U.S.A. has not only helped them to prepare for the challenges and opportunities of adulthood but also enriched our communities and country. 
From the Daisy and Brownie levels to the ranks of Junior, Cadette, and Senior, participation in the Girl Scouts is about becoming a good neighbor and citizen while at the same time striving to reach one's fullest potential. The fundamentals of scouting -- and life -- are summarized in the Girl Scout Promise, which states: 
On my honor, I will try 
To serve God and my country 
To help people at all times 
And to live by the Scout Law. 
The Scout Law, in turn, upholds virtues such as honesty, fairness, self-respect, and respect and consideration for others. The first five words of the Law, "I will do my best," emphasize that virtually every aim of scouting is rooted in a commitment to excellence. 
Learning is a key to excellence, of course, and one way that Girl Scouts gain valuable knowledge and experience is through voluntary service to others. Every Girl Scout has pledged "to help where I am needed . . . [and] to protect and improve the world around me." Hence, Girl Scouts serve as shining Points of Light in their communities; each year, they devote thousands of hours to activities such as visiting residents of nursing homes, collecting food and clothing for the poor, or planting and caring for trees. Moreover, the Girl Scout organization, which includes more than 200,000 troops across the United States, is staffed almost entirely by adult volunteers. 
By affirming the importance of serving others and by upholding the traditional moral and spiritual values on which this great Republic rests, the Girl Scouts of the U.S.A. has become known as an "all-American" organization. Yet through its membership in the World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts, the Girl Scouts of the U.S.A. is part of a global family of young women and adults who profess the timeless ideals contained in the Scout Promise and Scout Law. 
When she brought scouting to the girls of America 80 years ago, Juliette Gordon Low could not have envisioned the immense popularity and stature that it enjoys today. In a 1924 letter to members of the Girl Scouts, she wrote: 
I hope that during the coming year we shall all remember the rules of this Girl Scouting game of ours. They are: To play fair. To play in your place. To play for your side and not for yourself. And as for the score, the best thing in a game is the fun and not the result . . . . 
For millions of American women, participation in the Girl Scouts has proved to be excellent preparation for life, and Ms. Low's words are well worth remembering today. 
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 343, has designated March 12, 1992, as "Girl Scouts of the United States of America 80th Anniversary Day." 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby recognize March 12, 1992, as the 80th anniversary of the Girl Scouts of the United States of America. I invite all Americans to observe this occasion with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH