By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
When we Americans observed a National Day of Prayer earlier this week, we not only gave thanks for our many blessings but also prayed for the renewal of our Nation's moral heritage, beginning with that most precious and important of institutions: the family. It seems fitting, therefore, that we observe Mother's Day while those prayers still echo in our thoughts. A mother is the heart of the family and the light of the home, and the love and values that she imparts to her children profoundly influence the character of our communities and country. 
"All that I am," said John Quincy Adams, "my mother made me." Who of us could not say likewise? A mother is her child's first and most influential teacher, and the lessons that one learns through her love and example last a lifetime. Ranging from simple lessons about courtesy and kindness to poignant lessons about duty, honor, patience, and forgiveness, they guide us even as we rear children of our own. Indeed, the older we become, the more deeply we appreciate our mother's wisdom -- as well as the many worries and sacrifices that she has endured for our sake. 
Today, as we honor all women who, by virtue of giving birth or through marriage or adoption, are mothers, we remember especially those who -- despite even the most difficult social and economic circumstances -- help their children to grow in love of God and neighbor and in understanding of the difference between right and wrong. Through their faith and courage, and through the unconditional love and acceptance that are the mark of motherhood, these women give their children hope, self-esteem, and direction. In so doing, they give them keys to a brighter future. 
In grateful recognition of the contributions that mothers everywhere make to their families and to the Nation, the Congress, by a joint resolution approved May 8, 1914 (38 Stat. 771), has designated the second Sunday in May each year as "Mother's Day" and requested the President to call for its appropriate observance. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim that Sunday, May 10, 1992, be observed as Mother's Day. I urge all Americans to express their love and respect for their mothers on this day; to reflect on the importance of motherhood to our families and Nation; and to ask for God's blessing upon each. I also direct Federal officials to display the flag of the United States on all Federal buildings, and I encourage all citizens to display the flag at their homes and other suitable places on that day. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH