By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Small business men and women accomplish great things for our communities and country, and each year it is our privilege as Americans to join in saluting these present-day pioneers. 
Through their willingness to take risks and to do the hard work that is necessary to improve existing products and services or to design, develop, and market new ones, small business people are leading America's economic productivity and innovation. Indeed, small business is the lifeblood of our Nation's free enterprise system. This resilient sector generates two of every three jobs in the United States and has been cited by forecasters as the driving force behind the more than 850,000 new jobs that were created in 1991. In addition, small businesses employ more than half of the American work force -- often providing that crucial first job to young people and other disadvantaged workers -- while generating some 44 percent of all sales and 39 percent of our GNP. Today, as we look toward the vast frontier that is the 21st century, we know that small business men and women will continue to play a vital role in moving the United States forward to even greater heights of prosperity and progress. 
In the future, the success of American small business will have increasing impact around the globe. Indeed, as they strive to overcome impoverishment and stagnation imposed by years of totalitarian rule, more and more of the world's emerging democracies are looking to the United States as a model of private initiative and market principles in action. Hence, it is important that we continue to promote a climate in which small businesses can thrive. This means alleviating the high cost of capital and the heavy burden of excessive government regulation, which stifle investment and creativity. Encouraging the success of small business will also require a continuing commitment to excellence in education, which is vital to producing workers who have the knowledge and skills that are necessary to excel in the increasingly competitive global marketplace. Today, it is gratifying to note that many small businesses have joined in support of AMERICA 2000, our comprehensive strategy to achieve our National Education Goals. 
From their daily contributions toward our local and national economies to their generous participation in voluntary community service programs and other worthwhile endeavors, small business men and women are helping to build a better America for all of us. Thus, these enterprising individuals richly deserve our support and thanks. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week of May 10 through May 16 as Small Business Week. I urge all Americans to join me in saluting our Nation's small business men and women by observing this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twelfth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH