By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including title II of the Stewart
B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 11311–11320), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in order to provide for the streamlining and strengthening of the Nation’s efforts to break the cycle of homelessness, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Federal member agencies acting through the Interagency Council on the Homeless, established under title II of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act, shall develop a single coordinated Federal plan for breaking the cycle of existing homelessness and for preventing future homelessness.
Sec. 2. The plan shall recommend Federal administrative and legislative initiatives necessary to carry out the plan and shall include a proposed schedule for implementing administrative initiatives and transmitting any necessary legislative proposals to the Congress. These initiatives and legislative proposals shall identify ways to streamline and consolidate, when appropriate, existing programs designed to assist homeless individuals and families.
Sec. 3. The plan shall make recommendations on how current funding programs can be redirected, if necessary, to provide links between housing, support, and education services and to promote coordination and cooperation among grantees, local housing and support service providers, school districts, and advocates for homeless individuals and families. The plan shall also provide recommendations on ways to encourage and support creative approaches and cost-effective, local efforts to break the cycle of existing homelessness and prevent future homelessness, including tying current homeless assistance programs to permanent housing assistance, local housing affordability strategies, or employment opportunities.
Sec. 4. To the extent practicable, the Council shall consult with representatives of State and local governments (including education agencies), nonprofit providers of services and housing for homeless individuals and families, advocates for homeless individuals and families, currently and formerly homeless individuals and families, and other interested parties.
Sec. 5. The Council shall submit the plan to the President no later than 9 months after the date of this order.
William J. Clinton
THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 19, 1993.