By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), section 5 of the United Nations Participation Act of 1945, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, in view of United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 757 of May 30, 1992, No. 787 of November 16, 1992, and No. 820 of April 17, 1993, and in order to take additional steps with respect to the actions and policies of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) and the national emergency described and declared in Executive Order No. 12808 and expanded in Executive Order No. 12810 and No. 12831,
I, WILLIAM J. CLINTON, President of the United States of America, hereby order:
Section 1. Notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the effective date of this order, except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses which may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order:
 (a)
 All property and interests in property of all commercial, industrial, or public utility undertakings or entities organized or located in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), including, without limitation, the property and interests in property of entities (wherever organized or located) owned or controlled by such undertakings or entities, that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of United States persons, including their overseas branches, are hereby blocked;
 (b)
 All expenses incident to the blocking and maintenance of property blocked under Executive Order Nos. 12808, 12810, 12831 or this order shall be charged to the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds. Such property may also be sold or liquidated and the proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner;
 (c)
 All vessels, freight vehicles, rolling stock, aircraft and cargo that are within or hereafter come within the United States and are not subject to blocking under Executive Order Nos. 12808, 12810, 12831 or this order, but which are suspected of a violation of United Nations Security Council Resolution Nos. 713, 757, 787 or 820, shall be detained pending investigation and, upon a determination by the Secretary of the Treasury that they have been in violation of any of these resolutions, shall be blocked. Such blocked conveyances and cargo may also be sold or liquidated and the proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner;
 (d)
 No vessel registered in the United States or owned or controlled by United States persons, other than a United States naval vessel, may enter the territorial waters of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro); and
(e) Any dealing by a United States person relating to the importation from, exportation to, or transshipment through the United Nations Protected Areas in the Republic of Croatia and those areas of the Republic of Bosnia-Hercegovina under the control of Bosnian Serb forces, or activity of any kind that promotes or is intended to promote such dealing, is prohibited.
Sec. 2. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by the International Emergency Economic Powers Act and the United Nations Participation Act as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may redelegate the authority set forth in this order to other officers and agencies of the Federal Government, all agencies of which are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order, including suspension or termination of licenses or other authorizations in effect as of the date of this order.
Sec. 3. Nothing in this order shall apply to activities related to the United Nations Protection Force, the International Conference on the Former Yugoslavia, and the European Community Monitor Mission.
Sec. 4. The definitions contained in section 5 of Executive Order No. 12810 apply to the terms used in this order.
Sec. 5. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against the United States, its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.
Sec. 6. This order shall not affect the provisions of licenses and authorizations issued pursuant to Executive Order Nos. 12808, 12810, 12831 and in force on the effective date of this order, except as such licenses or authorization may hereafter be terminated, modified or suspended by the issuing federal agency.
Sec. 7. (a) This order shall take effect at 12:01 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time, April 26, 1993.
(b) This order shall be transmitted to the Congress and published in the Federal Register.
William J. Clinton
THE WHITE HOUSE,
April 25, 1993.