By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
At this time every year, Americans celebrate Leif Erikson Day. In so doing, we commemorate the voyages of the great Norse explorer who first set foot on North America nearly a thousand years ago. At the same time, we also celebrate the enduring ties between America and the Nordic countries and take note of the outstanding contributions that Nordic Americans have made to the United States. In a sense, the bonds that Leif Erikson-son of Iceland, grandson of Nordway--forged continue unbroken today. We maintain an impressive exchange of people and ideas with the Nordic countries.
The early settlers inherited an adventurous spirit that had led their ancestors from Scandinavia to much of Europe and into the Atlantic. In addition, these adventurers started from lands that were already halfway points between the Old World and the New. Even today, the Nordic countries, which possess a commitment to open, democratic societies and to peaceful relations among nations, serve as links between Europe and the rest of the world.
At a time when the relations between Europe and America are being redefined, the Nordic countries retain their important role in fostering democracy, transatlantic co-operation, and an open trading system. Their many contributions to international diplomacy, humalitarian assistance, and peace-keeping in the world's trouble spots set a high standard that the rest of the world greatly admires. Americans who trace their roots to the Nordic countries--Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden--not only continue to enrich their new homeland, but also play a key part in providing a link across the Atlantic, just as their ancestors did a thousand years ago.
In honor of Leif Erikson and our Nordic-American heritage, the Congress, by joint resolution approved on September 2, 1964 (Public Law 88-556), has authorized and requested the President to proclaim October 9 of each year as "Leif Erikson Day."
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 9, 1993, as Leif Erikson Day. I also encourage the people of the United States to observe this occasion by learning more about our rich Nordic-American heritage and the early history of our continent.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON