By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Americans live in an era when there are no major confrontations between world powers. This period of peace traces its roots back 50 years to the Second World War. Our Armed Forces stood strong against totalitarian regimes that sought to dominate and suppress freedom-loving peoples of the world. Although Americans felt ill-equipped to take on the vast international responsibilities, we rose to take on world leadership. In the process, we learned the price of aggression and the benefits of peace.
At the end of the Cold War, it is therefore fitting to remember the years of World War II and those brave and selfless American patriots who stood strong and true against tyranny so that we could enjoy a safer and more prosperous life. President Franklin D. Roosevelt's thoughts about the time still apply today:
"We are faced with the pre-eminent fact that, if civilization is to survive, we must cultivate the science of human relationship -- the ability of all people, of all kinds, to live together and work together in the same world, at peace. . . . "
Our generation and future generations must heed these words. In a world warmed by the sunshine of freedom, but threatened still by ancient hatreds and new plagues, the United States of America must stand as a beacon of liberty and justice.
During this period of remembrance and reflection, it is appropriate that Memorial Day be included during the "Time for the National Observance of the Fiftieth Anniversary of World War II." As we preserve the memory of the events of World War II and honor the memory of our loved ones lost during that tragic time, I call upon Americans to study the history of that era so that the values our Nation defended and the lessons we learned will never be forgotten. I ask that we celebrate freedom and peace in our houses of worship and in our halls of government, in private thanksgiving and public ceremonies, and that we remember and honor our Nation's World War II veterans.
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 80, has designated May 30, 1993, through June 7, 1993, as a "Time for the National Observance of the Fiftieth Anniversary of World War II."
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate May 30, 1993, through June 7, 1993, as a Time for the National Observance of the Fiftieth Anniversary of World War II. I call upon all Americans to observe this period with appropriate programs and activities.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON