By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
For more than half a century, Americans have celebrated Mother's Day on the second Sunday in May. On this day, we honor our mothers and reflect on the many hours of love and care they have devoted to our lives.
Mothers are the cornerstone of our communities. As caregivers, community activists, teachers, leaders, and business professionals, they serve as role models and inspirations for our achievements. Their tireless devotion to the family nourishes us as individuals and enriches our Nation.
Throughout life, a mother is a teacher, a nurturer, a supporter, and a source of strength. Our mothers instill in us strong values and the confidence to dream big dreams. With their encouragement and support, we can pursue our dreams and make them come true.
Mothers enrich our lives in so many ways. Whether biological, foster, or adoptive, a mother holds an enduring place in our hearts; a mother's love transcends all differences and divisions. We admire the energy, strength, and conviction of our mothers, and we honor their dedication to helping others. As we celebrate Mother's Day, let us cherish their gifts of selflessness and love.
In recognition of the contributions of all mothers to their children and to the Nation, the Congress, by a joint resolution approved May 8, 1914 (38 Stat. 770), has designated the second Sunday in May each year as "Mother's Day" and requested the President to call for its appropriate observance.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby request that Sunday, May 9, 1993, be observed as Mother's Day. I direct Government officials to display the flag of the United States on all Federal Government buildings, and I urge all citizens to display the flag at their homes and other suitable places on that day.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this seventh day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON