By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Nearly 70 million Americans enjoy recreational boating as a favorite pastime. America's scenic lakes, beautiful rivers, and vast waterways provide a wonderful place for boaters to enjoy family outings, waterskiing, fishing, and other activities. It is appropriate that we recognize the many joys recreational boating affords. At the same time, because recreational boating can involve risks to persons, property, and natural resources, it is also important that we reflect upon ways to ensure safe boating.
The U.S. Coast Guard, the National Safe Boating Council, and the many State and local recreational boating organizations allied in the cause of safe boating have chosen "Boat Smart" as the theme of National Safe Boating Week. This theme serves as a reminder to the millions of Americans who engage in recreational boating that this activity should be enjoyed in a thoughtful, responsible manner. Many Americans can benefit from preparation and caution: taking boating safety courses; wearing personal flotation devices; following the "Rules of the Road"; and not using alcohol or drugs when operating boats. Young boaters learn safe boating practices by example, and today's boating practices may affect the well-being of American families for years to come.
Boating is an activity that directly affects our precious national water resources and associated wildlife. Boaters must carefully preserve and protect our rivers, lakes, seashores, and wildlife by avoiding practices that give rise to accidents, injuries, and pollution. Today's boaters must take care to preserve our precious waterways for future generations.
For all of these reasons, I call upon boating Americans, during National Safe Boating Week, 1993, to reflect on the importance of safe boating to the health of our people and the preservation of our natural resources. We must commit ourselves to safe and environmentally sensitive boating -- for now and for the future.
To promote boating as a safe sport, the Congress, by joint resolution approved June 4, 1958 (36 U.S.C. 161), as amended, has authorized and requested that the President annually proclaim the week beginning on the first Sunday in June as "National Safe Boating Week."
more
(OVER)
2
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning June 6, 1993, as National Safe Boating Week. I encourage the Governors of the 50 States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and officials of other areas subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, to provide for the observance of this week with appropriate activities. I urge all Americans to become informed boaters and to enjoy safe, thoughtful recreational boating.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON