By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Veterans Day is a time for Americans to thank our Nation's military veterans for the sacrifices they have made to defend and preserve the blessings of liberty. During times of war and times of peace, these men and women have ensured that future generations would enjoy the life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness promised by our Nation's Founders. We have much to learn from all who have served.
In the major wars and numerous smaller conflicts fought by our Nation's Armed Forces, our men and women in uniform have shaped our Nation through their great sacrifices to safeguard our freedom. Through the War of Independence and the many wrenching conflicts of the 19th century, Americans preserved our Nation with their bravery and their commitment to duty and country. In the conflicts of our century, men and women in the Armed Forces have successfully defended our security, freedom, and ideals, helping to build America into a greater Nation.
On this day, we should pay special tribute to the more than 27 million living American veterans. Seventy-five years ago on November 11, the Armistice was signed, ending World War I, "the war to end all wars." More than 32,000 soldiers of the nearly 5 million who fought in World War I are still living, serving as a reminder of the struggles through which they secured our safety. Many more veterans from World War II and the Korean Conflict still serve their country as career soldiers and civilians, tempered with the experience of war. Vietnam veterans continue to help our Nation adjust to a new international security environment often characterized by regional conflicts similar to the war in which they fought.
Living veterans, having once served our country in uniform, now fill such key roles as teachers, police officers, business owners, doctors, lawyers, government officials, and volunteers, sustaining our society secured by their service.
In a greater sense, this day cannot fully honor America's veterans who have risked and sacrificed their lives. But we can resolve to continue the struggle for freedom that they made their duty and to dedicate our lives to ensuring that their valiant efforts shall never have been in vain.
In order that we may pay due tribute to those who have served in our Armed Forces, the Congress has provided (5 U.S.C. 6103(a)) that November 11 of each year shall be set aside as a legal public holiday to honor America's veterans.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Thursday, November 11, 1993, as "Veterans Day." I urge all Americans to honor the resolution and commitment of our veterans through appropriate public ceremonies and private prayers. I also call upon Federal, State, and local government officials to display the flag of the United States and to encourage and participate in patriotic activities in their communities. I invite civic and fraternal organizations, churches, schools, businesses, unions, and the media to support this national observance with suitable commemorative expressions and programs.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON