By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
As America approaches a new century, we face hard truths and must take strong steps. As a Nation, we must provide hope for all Americans and opportunity for them to compete and to succeed. A sound, well-rounded education that prepares students for achievement and success is a moral imperative and an economic necessity.
The United States must work to improve the quality of education for all students, to ensure access and opportunity, and to build public-private partnerships, all of which will help students meet high standards of achievement. Accomplishing that mission will require the involvement of everyone--not just teachers and administrators, but every person, every family, and every community. We must take responsibility for ensuring the success of generations to follow. I commend the leadership and commitment of those inside and outside of schools who are working each day to promote and encourage excellence in education for all Americans.
Our Founders saw themselves in the light of posterity. We must do the same. John Kennedy reminded us that civilization is a race between education and catastrophe--and it is up to us to determine the winner.
To recognize the work of Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson, the leader of the Lubavitch movement, on the occasion of his 91st birthday on April 2, 1993, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 150, has designated April 2, 1993, as "Education and Sharing Day, U.S.A." and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim April 2, 1993, as Education and Sharing Day, U.S.A. I call upon the people of the United States, government officials, educators, and volunteers to observe the day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this second day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON