By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The spirit of service is embodied in the people of America. With the knowledge that each of us benefits when we all work together, and with the willingness to act on that knowledge, we have always strived to bring out the best in ourselves and in our country. This tradition of service sustains and defines our citizenship and our democracy. Our shared institutions and values unite this country and make it great. None of these runs deeper than the spirit of service.
As they have throughout history, volunteers today are lifting up America. Millions of citizens are giving of themselves to help provide a better future for all Americans. The many forms of service are as diverse as the American people: a homemaker organizing a neighborhood patrol, a retired firefighter becoming a foster grandparent, a teenager volunteering in a health clinic, or a small child designing a recycling program. A uniquely American spirit unites all of these efforts.
In our smallest counties and in our largest cities -- in every community across the land -- citizens are renewing America through service. Alone, any one effort can make a significant impact. Together, they can change our country forever -- not only through the material improvements they create but also through the spiritual transformation they foster.
This week, then, it is fitting that we honor the millions of people who devote themselves to helping others. But this year, let us do more than recognize their efforts. Let us renew our spirit of volunteerism and rededicate ourselves to serving our fellow Americans.
This is a time to rekindle the spirit of service. Old and young, rich and poor, all of us have roles to play in making our Nation stronger. We must serve in order to allow our children -- and future generations -- to live up to their full potential. Just as important, we must serve in order to be our best as Americans and as human beings.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby designate the week beginning April 18, 1993, as National Volunteer Week. I ask all Americans to join in commending the contributions volunteers make to our Nation. I urge every citizen to consider how, in our own ways, we can renew our Nation's hope, revitalize our people's spirit, and reclaim our country's promise.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this seventeenth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON