By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
In 1972, Title IX was passed requiring colleges receiving government funds to provide equitable athletic programs for women, thus markedly expanding sports opportunities for women. As we enter the third decade of this law, it is fitting and proper that we recognize the importance of the skills gained through fitness and athletic experiences.
Sports and fitness activities greatly enhance emotional and physical well-being. Additionally, the communication and cooperation skills learned through athletic experiences play a key role in an individual's contributions at home, at work, and to society. At the same time, the bonds built through athletics help to break down the barriers of racism and prejudice.
Unfortunately, while the history of women in sports is rich and long, there has been limited national recognition of the significance of women's athletic achievements. The number of women in leadership positions as coaches, officials, and administrators has declined drastically over the years. Athletic opportunities for male students at the high school and collegiate level remain significantly greater than those for female students.
With the promise of a bright future, female athletes serve as a source of pride and unity for the United States. They represent the best of performance and dedication and serve as valuable role models to younger citizens.
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 546, has designated February 4, 1993, as "National Women and Girls in Sports Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim February 4, 1993, as National Women and Girls in Sports Day. I urge all Americans to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this third day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON