By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment. There is established the "President’s Council on Sustainable Development" ("Council"). The Council shall consist of not more than 25 members to be appointed by the President from the public and private sectors and who represent industrial, environmental, governmental, and not-for-profit organizations with experience relating to matters of sustainable development. The President shall designate from among the Council members such official or officials to be chairperson, chairpersons, vice-chairperson, or vice-chairpersons of the Council as he shall deem appropriate. The Council shall coordinate with and report to such officials of the executive branch as the President or the Director of the White House Office on Environmental Policy shall from time to time determine.
Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Council shall advise the President on matters involving sustainable development. "Sustainable development" is broadly defined as economic growth that will benefit present and future generations without detrimentally affecting the resources or biological systems of the planet.
 (b)
 The Council shall develop and recommend to the President a national sustainable development action strategy that will foster economic vitality.
 (c)
 The chairperson or chairpersons may, from time to time, invite experts to submit information to the Council and may form subcommittees of the Council to review and report to the Council on the development of national and local sustainable development plans.
 Sec. 3. Administration. (a) The heads of executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide to the Council such information with respect to sustainable development as the Council requires to carry out its functions.
 (b)
 Members of the Council shall serve without compensation, but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C. 5701–5707).
 (c)
 The White House Office on Environmental Policy shall obtain funding for the Council from the Department of the Interior or such other sources (including other Federal agencies) as may lawfully contribute to such activities. The funding received shall provide for the administrative and financial support of the Council.
 (d)
 The Office of Administration in the Executive Office of the President shall, on a reimbursable basis, provide such administrative services for the Council as may be required.
Sec. 4. General. (a) I have determined that the Council shall be established in compliance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5
U.S.C. App.). Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, except that of reporting to the Congress, which are applicable to the Council, shall be performed by the Office of Administration in the Executive Office
of the President in accord with the guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services.
 (b)
 The Council shall exist for a period of 2 years from the date of this order, unless the Council’s charter is subsequently extended.
 (c)
 Executive Order No. 12737, which established the President’s Commission on Environmental Quality, is revoked.
William J. Clinton
THE WHITE HOUSE,
June 29, 1993.