By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
One of the most essential and challenging jobs in America belongs to our law enforcement officers. The men and women who safeguard our lives and property every hour of every day are true heroes. They must be physically fit, well-versed in criminal law and procedure, skilled in the use of weapons and other technologies, adept at communicating, leading, and problem-solving, and able to make split-second decisions in life-or-death situations. There is no time to look up answers in a textbook out on the street; an officer's education and training make all the difference.
High-quality instruction and preparation are the foundations of successful law enforcement. As the problem of crime grows and criminals become more sophisticated, knowledge of law enforcement skills must enable officers to bring every available tool to bear to prevent crime and to apprehend those who, with no regard for the rights of others, defy our laws. It is no longer sufficient for officers to know how to use a car, a gun, and a fingerprint pad; today's professionals must be proficient in disciplines as complicated and diverse as computer technology, chemical analysis, genetic fingerprinting, sociology, and psychology.
On this occasion, we salute the men and women who prepare our law enforcement officers for duty. The expertise and education instilled by those who teach and train law officers make our criminal justice system more efficient and increase public confidence in government's ability to protect its citizens.
Since successful law enforcement depends on community involvement, law enforcement education for the broader public should also be recognized and encouraged. From field trips to town meetings to university courses, teaching aimed at more general audiences can better capture the interest of citizens and motivate young people to consider careers in law enforcement.
We, as a Nation, offer our heartfelt gratitude and support to those who instruct and inspire our officers. We encourage officers and other Americans to avail themselves of the many law enforcement training opportunities available to them.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 75, has designated January 2, 1994, through January 8, 1994, as "National Law Enforcement Training Week," and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this occasion.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim January 2, 1994, through January 8, 1994, as National Law Enforcement Training Week. I urge all Americans to observe this week with appropriate exhibits, ceremonies, and activities, including programs designed to heighten the awareness of all citizens and to stimulate and encourage our Nation's youth to recognize the vital significance of law enforcement in America.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first day of December, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON