By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), section 5 of the United Nations Participation Act of 1945, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c), and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, in view of United Nations Security Council Resolutions No. 757 of May 30, 1992, and No. 787 of November 16, 1992, and in order to take additional steps with respect to the actions and policies of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) and the national emergency described and declared in Executive Order No. 12808 and expanded in Executive Order No. 12810, 
I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, hereby order: 
Section 1. The following are prohibited, except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses which may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the effective date of this order: 
(a) Any transaction within the United States or by a United States person related to the transshipment of commodities or products through the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro); and 
(b) Any transaction within the United States or by a United States person relating to any vessel in which a majority or controlling interest is held by a person or entity in, or operating from, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) regardless of the flag under which the vessel sails. 
Sec. 2. Any vessel in which a majority or controlling interest is held by a person or entity in, or operating from, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) shall be considered as a vessel of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) regardless of the flag under which the vessel sails. 
Sec. 3. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by the International Emergency Economic Powers Act and the United Nations Participation Act, as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of this order. Such actions may include prohibiting or regulating trade and financial transactions involving any areas of the territory of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as to which there is inadequate assurance that such transactions will not be diverted to the benefit of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). The Secretary of the Treasury may redelegate the authority set forth in this order to other officers and agencies of the United States Government, all agencies of which are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order, including suspension or termination of licenses or other authorizations in effect as of the date of this order. 
Sec. 4. Section 3(i) of Executive Order No. 12810 is hereby revoked. 
Sec. 5. The definitions contained in Section 5 of Executive Order No. 12810 apply to the terms used in this order. 
Sec. 6. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against the United States, its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person. 
Sec. 7. (a) This order is effective immediately. 
(b) This order shall be transmitted to the Congress and published in the Federal Register. 
George Bush
The White House,
January 15, 1993.