By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
1. Sections 202 and 204 of the Andean Trade Preference Act (ATPA) (19 U.S.C. 3201 and 3203) confer authority upon the President to proclaim duty-free treatment for all eligible articles, and duty reductions for certain other articles, that are the product of any country designated as a "beneficiary country" in accordance with the provisions of section 203 of the ATPA (19 U.S.C. 3202). Pursuant to section 203(b)(2) of the ATPA (19 U.S.C. 3202(b)(2)), I have notified the House of Representatives and the Senate of my intention to designate Peru as a beneficiary country for purposes of the ATPA, together with the considerations entering into such decision. I hereby designate Peru as a beneficiary country under the ATPA, and in order to reflect this designation in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTS), I have decided that it is necessary to modify general note 3(c)(ix) to the HTS. 
2. Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483), authorizes the President to embody in the HTS the substance of the relevant provisions of that Act, and of other acts affecting import treatment, and actions thereunder, including the removal, modification, continuance, or imposition of any rate of duty or other import restriction. 
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, acting under the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including but not limited to section 203 of the ATPA and section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, do proclaim that: 
(1) General note 3(c)(ix)(A) to the HTS is modified by inserting in alphabetical sequence "Peru", which is hereby designated as a beneficiary country under the ATPA. 
(2) The modifications made by paragraph (1) of this proclamation shall be effective with respect to articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after the 15th day after the date of publication of this proclamation in the Federal Register. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eleventh day of August, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth. 
WILLIAM J. CLINTON