The Federal Government is charged with protecting the health and safety, as well as promoting other national interests, of the American people. However, the cumulative effect of unfunded Federal mandates has increasingly strained the budgets of State, local, and tribal governments. In addition, the cost, complexity, and delay in applying for and receiving waivers from Federal requirements in appropriate cases have hindered State, local, and tribal governments from tailoring Federal programs to meet the specific or unique needs of their communities. These governments should have more flexibility to design solutions to the problems faced by citizens in this country without excessive micromanagement and unnecessary regulation from the Federal Government.
THEREFORE, by the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to reduce the imposition of unfunded mandates upon State, local, and tribal governments; to streamline the application process for and increase the availability of waivers to State, local, and tribal governments; and to establish regular and meaningful consultation and collaboration with State, local, and tribal governments on Federal matters that significantly or uniquely affect their communities, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Reduction of Unfunded Mandates. (a) To the extent feasible and permitted by law, no executive department or agency ("agency") shall promulgate any regulation that is not required by statute and that creates a mandate upon a State, local, or tribal government, unless:
 (1)
 funds necessary to pay the direct costs incurred by the State, local, or tribal government in complying with the mandate are provided by the Federal Government; or
 (2)
 the agency, prior to the formal promulgation of regulations containing the proposed mandate, provides to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget a description of the extent of the agency’s prior consultation with representatives of affected State, local, and tribal governments, the nature of their concerns, any written communications submitted to the agency by such units of government, and the agency’s position supporting the need to issue the regulation containing the mandate.
 (b)
 Each agency shall develop an effective process to permit elected officials and other representatives of State, local, and tribal governments to provide meaningful and timely input in the development of regulatory proposals containing significant unfunded mandates. Sec. 2. Increasing Flexibility for State and Local Waivers. (a) Each agency shall review its waiver application process and take appropriate steps to streamline that process.
 (b)
 Each agency shall, to the extent practicable and permitted by law, consider any application by a State, local, or tribal government for a waiver of statutory or regulatory requirements in connection with any program administered by that agency with a general view toward increasing opportunities for utilizing flexible policy approaches at the State, local, and tribal level in cases in which the proposed waiver is consistent with the applicable Federal policy objectives and is otherwise appropriate.
 (c)
 Each agency shall, to the fullest extent practicable and permitted by law, render a decision upon a complete application for a waiver within
120 days of receipt of such application by the agency. If the application for a waiver is not granted, the agency shall provide the applicant with timely written notice of the decision and the reasons therefor.
(d) This section applies only to statutory or regulatory requirements of
the programs that are discretionary and subject to waiver by the agency. Sec. 3. Responsibility for Agency Implementation. The Chief Operating Officer of each agency shall be responsible for ensuring the implementation of and compliance with this order.
Sec. 4. Executive Order No. 12866. This order shall supplement but not supersede the requirements contained in Executive Order No. 12866 ("Regulatory Planning and Review").
Sec. 5. Scope. (a) Executive agency means any authority of the United States that is an "agency" under 44 U.S.C. 3502(1), other than those considered to be independent regulatory agencies, as defined in 44 U.S.C. 3502(10).
(b) Independent agencies are requested to comply with the provisions
of this order. Sec. 6. Judicial Review. This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against the United States, its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.
Sec. 7. Effective Date. This order shall be effective 90 days after the date of this order.
William J. Clinton
THE WHITE HOUSE,
October 26, 1993.