By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Our Nation's historically Black colleges and universities have long been a beacon of hope, a door to advancement, and a source of pride for African Americans. Founded upon a commitment to equal opportunity and academic excellence, these distinguished institutions have enabled thousands of people to receive a quality education and to pursue distinguished careers in fields such as education, law, medicine, business, the arts, engineering, and the military.
Historically Black colleges and universities once offered African Americans their best, and often only, opportunities for higher education. Fortunately, the courts have now struck down legal barriers that forced the creation of separate schools for African Americans. Yet historically Black colleges and universities continue to play a vital role by adding to the diversity and caliber of the Nation's higher education system. Furthermore, these institutions remind all Americans of our obligation to uphold the principles of justice and equality enshrined in our Constitution.
By an Executive order issued on April 28, 1989, the President's Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities was established to advise the President and the Secretary of Education on strengthening these valued institutions. The Executive order directed Federal agencies to devise ways to increase the ability of historically Black colleges and universities to participate in Federally funded programs. It also underscored the importance of increasing private sector support for these schools through such devices and activities as matching funds programs, management assistance, technical development, and curriculum planning.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, and in recognition of the rich heritage and prominent role in our country of historically Black colleges and universities, and of the many contributions these institutions and their graduates have made to our society, do hereby proclaim the period beginning September 19, 1993, and ending September 25, 1993, as National Historically Black Colleges and Universities Week. I call upon all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities as an expression of their support for these important educational institutions.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON