By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 3347 of title 5, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1.
Succession to Act as the Secretary of the Army.
 (a) In the event of the death, permanent disability, or resignation of the Secretary of the Army, the incumbents holding the positions designated below, in the order indicated, shall act for and exercise the powers of the Secretary of the Army:
(1) The Under Secretary of the Army.
(2) The Assistant Secretaries and General Counsel of the Army, in the order fixed by their length of service as permanent appointees in such positions.
(3) The Chief of Staff of the Army.
(b) In the event of the absence or temporary disability of the Secretary of the Army, the incumbents holding the Department of the Army positions designated in paragraph (a) of this section, in the order indicated, shall act for and exercise the powers of the Secretary of the Army.
(1) The designation of an Acting Secretary of the Army under this subsection applies only for the duration of the Secretary's absence or disability, and does not affect the authority of the Secretary to resume the powers of the Secretary's office.
(2) When the Secretary of the Army is temporarily absent from the position, the Secretary of the Army may continue to exercise the powers and fulfill the duties of his office during his absence, notwithstanding the provisions of this order.
(c) Precedence among those officers designated in paragraph (a) of this section who have the same date of appointment shall be determined by the Secretary of the Army at the time that such appointments are made.
(d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, an officer shall not act for or exercise the powers of the Secretary of the Army under this order if that officer serves only in an acting capacity in the position that would otherwise entitle him to do so.
Sec. 2.
Temporary Nature of Succession.
 Succession to act for and exercise the powers of the Secretary of the Army pursuant to this order shall be on a temporary or interim basis and shall not have the effect of vacating the statutory appointment held by the successor.
William J. Clinton
The White House,
April 22, 1994.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:59 a.m., April 25, 1994]