By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The Armed Forces of the United States of America have faced hostile actions in every decade of this century. Over 200,000 American service members are currently serving overseas, many in situations where armed conflict is an ever-present possibility. Recent events in Somalia and continuing peacekeeping operations in Bosnia and elsewhere keep us fully mindful of the high risks that even humanitarian missions entail.
Over the more than two hundred years of our Independence, thousands of Americans have fallen into the hands of our enemies. Many did not survive the ordeal. Many who did return from captivity had suffered unrelenting indignities, physical and psychological abuse, and unspeakable torture.
Despite deprivation and suffering inflicted by their captors, these brave Americans persevered, maintained their honor, and kept faith with each other and with the American people. In the Congress, in State and local government, and in civic organizations across the Nation, former prisoners of war still keep faith with America through their continued service in positions of leadership and trust.
These men and women rank with our greatest patriots; no group of citizens is more deserving of remembrance and special recognition than our former prisoners of war.
The Congress, by Public Law 103–60, has designated April 9, 1994, as "National Former Prisoner of War Recognition Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of the occasion.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim April 9, 1994, as National Former Prisoner of War Recognition Day. I urge all American citizens to join in honoring members of the Armed Forces of the United States who have been held as prisoners of war. I also call upon Federal, State, and local government officials and private organizations to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this sixth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON