By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Americans owe a lasting debt of gratitude to those who pledged their lives to secure for us the blessings of liberty. We, therefore, set aside certain days during the year to honor their distinguished service—Veterans Day, for all who have served in our Armed Forces, and Memorial Day, for those who lost their lives in that service. But perhaps the greatest sacrifice of all in protecting our way of life was made by another group—women whose sons and daughters lost their lives in service to our country. These are the Gold Star Mothers of America, and they have earned a special place in our hearts.
These women once experienced the anxiety of watching their sons or daughters go off to war, not knowing whether they would return. These mothers felt the anguish of waiting for word of their loved ones. It is a drama that has been played out throughout our Nation's history. Sadly, in each generation, there are mothers who have been called on to accept the terrible truth that their son or daughter will not return. There can be no doubt that these brave women—our courageous Gold Star Mothers—are due our utmost respect.
This year, the 50th anniversary of the D-Day invasion at Normandy, we remember especially those whose sons and daughters served so valiantly during World War II. Half a century later, we recall the courage, spirit, and determination of those who went ashore to fight against tyranny. We celebrate D-Day because there, on the windswept beaches of Normandy, the first beach-head for freedom was won in the most epic of all American conflicts.
Inscribed in the chapel in the American cemetery in Normandy are the proud words:
"These endured all and gave all that justice among nations might prevail, and that mankind might enjoy freedom and inherit peace."
At the same time, our Gold Star Mothers endured all—and their deeply felt personal loss did not end in one day. Today, as we enjoy the peace and security our Nation has achieved through the sacrifices of American citizens, Gold Star Mothers can take solace in knowing that their sons and daughters left all humanity a legacy of invaluable meaning.
In respect and recognition of the sacrifices our Gold Star Mothers have made, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 115 on June 23, 1936 (49 Stat. 1895), has designated the last Sunday in September as "Gold Star Mother's Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim September 25, 1994, as Gold Star Mother's Day. I invite the American people to join with me in a fitting salute to our Gold Star Mothers. I also call upon all government officials to display the United States flag on government buildings on this solemn day. I additionally urge the American people to display the flag and to hold appropriate meetings in their homes, places of worship, or other suitable places, as public expression of the sympathy and the respect that our Nation holds for its Gold Star Mothers.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON