A dispute exists between the Long Island Railroad and certain of its employees represented by the United Transportation Union.
The dispute has not heretofore been adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended (the "Act").
A first emergency board to investigate the dispute was established by Executive Order No. 12874 on October 20, 1993. The emergency board terminated upon issuance of its report and, subsequently, its recommendations were not accepted.
A party empowered by the Act has requested that the President establish a second emergency board pursuant to section 9A of the Act (45 U.S.C. 159a).
Section 9A(e) of the Act provides that the President, upon such request, shall appoint a second emergency board to investigate and report on the dispute.
Now, Therefore, by the authority vested in me by section 9A of the Act, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1.
Establishment of the Board.
 There is established, effective February 15, 1994, a board of three members to be appointed by the President to investigate this dispute. No member shall be interested pecuniarily or otherwise in any organization of railroad employees or any carrier. The board shall perform its functions subject to the availability of funds.
Sec. 2.
Report.
 Within 30 days after creation of the board, the parties to the dispute shall submit to the board final offers for settlement of the dispute. Within 30 days after submission of final offers for settlement of the dispute, the board shall submit a report to the President setting forth its selection of the most reasonable offer.
Sec. 3.
Maintaining Conditions.
 As provided by section 9A(h) of the Act, from the time a request to establish a board is made until 60 days after the board makes its report, the parties shall make no changes in the conditions out of which the dispute arose, except by agreement.
Sec. 4.
Expiration.
 The board shall terminate upon submission of the report provided for in section 2 of this order.
William J. Clinton
The White House,
February 15, 1994.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:06 a.m., February 16, 1994]