By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in order to ensure, as required by section 7(b) of the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 (42 U.S.C. 1973gg) ("the Act"), that departments, agencies, and other entities of the executive branch of the Federal Government cooperate with the States in carrying out the Act's requirements, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1.
 Assistance to States.
 To the greatest extent practicable, departments, agencies, and other entities of the executive branch of the Federal Government that provide, in whole or in part, funding, grants, or assistance for, or with respect to the administration of, any program of public assistance or services to persons with disabilities within the meaning of section 7(a) of the Act shall: (a) provide, to State agencies administering any such program, guidance for the implementation of the requirements of section 7 of the Act, including guidance for use and distribution of voter registration forms in connection with applications for service;
(b) assist each such State agency administering any such program with the costs of implementation of the Act, consistent with legal authority and the availability of funds, and promptly indicate to each State agency the extent to which such assistance will be made available; and
(c) designate an office or staff to be available to provide technical assistance to such State agencies.
Sec. 2.
 Armed Forces Recruitment Offices.
 The Secretary of Defense is directed to work with the appropriate State elections authorities in each State to develop procedures for persons to apply to register to vote at Armed Forces recruitment offices as required by section 7(c) of the Act.
Sec. 3.
 Acceptance of Designation.
 To the greatest extent practicable, departments, agencies, or other entities of the executive branch of the Federal Government, if requested to be designated as a voter registration agency pursuant to section 7(a)(3)(B)(ii) of the Act, shall: (a) agree to such a designation if agreement is consistent with the department's, agency's, or entity's legal authority and availability of funds; and
(b) ensure that all of its offices that are located in a particular State will have available to the public at least one of the national voter registration forms that are required under the Act to be available in that State.
William Jefferson CLINTON
The White House,
September 12, 1994.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:21 a.m., September 13, 1994]