By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 5 of the United Nations Participation Act of 1945, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c), the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 2401
et seq.
 ), the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751
et seq.
 ), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in view of United Nations Security Council Resolution 918 of May 17, 1994, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1.
Arms Embargo.
 The following activities are prohibited, notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the effective date of this order, except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order: (a) The sale or supply to Rwanda from the territory of the United States by any person, or by any United States person in any foreign country or other location, or using any U.S.-registered vessel or aircraft, of arms and related materiel of all types, including weapons and ammunition, military vehicles and equipment, paramilitary police equipment, and spare parts for the aforementioned, irrespective of origin. This prohibition does not apply to activities related to the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda or the United Nations Observer Mission Uganda-Rwanda or other entities permittedto have such items by the United Nations Security Council; and
(b) Any willful evasion or attempt to violate or evade any of the prohibitions set forth in this order, by any person.
Sec. 2.
Definitions.
 For purposes of this order, the term: (a) "Person" means a natural person as well as a corporation, business association, partnership, society, trust, or any other entity, organization or group, including governmental entities; and
(b) "United States person" means any citizen or national of the United States, any lawful permanent resident of the United States, or any corporation, business association, partnership, society, trust, or any other entity, organization or group, including governmental entities, organized under the laws of the United States (including foreign branches).
Sec. 3.
Responsibilities.
 The functions and responsibilities for the enforcement of the foregoing prohibitions are delegated as follows: (a) The Secretary of State is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by section 5 of the United Nations Participation Act and other authorities available to the Secretary of State, as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of this order, relating to arms and related materiel of a type enumerated on the United States Munitions List (22 C.F.R. Part 121). The Secretary of State may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of the United States Government; and
(b) The Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by section 5 of the United Nations Participation Act and other authorities available to the Secretary of Commerce, as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of this order, relating to arms and related materiel identified in the Export Administration Regulations (15 C.F.R. Parts 730–799). The Secretary of Commerce may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of the United States Government.
Sec. 4.
Authorization.
 All agencies of the United States Government are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order, including suspension or termination of licenses or other authorizations in effect as of the date of this order.
Sec. 5.
Delegation of Authority
 . The Secretary of State and the Secretary of Commerce in consultation with the Secretary of State are hereby authorized to promulgate rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by section 5 of the United Nations Participation Act and not otherwise delegated by Executive order, as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of implementing any other arms embargo mandated by resolution of the United Nations Security Council, consistent with the allocation of functions delegated under section 3 of this order. The Secretary of State or the Secretary of Commerce may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of the United States Government.
Sec. 6.
Judicial Review
 . Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against the United States, its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.
Sec. 7.
Effective Date
 . This order shall take effect at 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on May 26, 1994.
William J. Clinton
The White House,
May 26, 1994.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:06 a.m., May 27, 1994]