By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
At a time when Government is confronting the challenge of serving the public more efficiently and effectively than ever while facing substantial resource constraints, it is especially fitting to recognize the dedication of our Nation's public employees. The Federal Government, in its efforts to work better and cost less, has often found inspiration in the creative innovations initiated by State and local government employees. Moreover, the new spirit of partnership between labor and management in the public sector has reduced the time and money wasted in unproductive adversarial proceedings so that more attention can be devoted to improving the services provided to the public.
Americans at all levels of government have made a significant difference in the lives of their fellow citizens, and it is most appropriate that we set aside this week to honor them. Public employees educate our children, administer programs to aid needy citizens, conduct biomedical research, help protect the environment, ensure the safety of our food supply, maintain our transportation networks, provide for the common defense, and enforce the Constitution and laws of the United States. These devoted women and men bring enormous talent, knowledge, and integrity to their work.
In recognition of the achievements of government employees, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 150, has designated the week of May 2, 1994, through May 8, 1994, as "Public Service Recognition Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation calling for observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of May 2, 1994, through May 8, 1994, as Public Service Recognition Week. I urge the people of the United States to participate in appropriate ceremonies and activities to recognize the vital contributions of employees of Federal, State, and local government. I also encourage young Americans to learn more about the work done by public employees and to consider careers in public service.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this third day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON