By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
In an emergency, most Americans depend on 9–1–1. Each day, more than half a million public safety communicators answer desperate calls for help, responding with services that save the lives and property of American citizens in need of assistance.
These dedicated men and women are more than anonymous voices on the telephone line. They are local police, fire, and medical professionals who use public safety telecommunications to quickly respond to emergency calls. They are also Federal public safety officials who use telecommunications for everything from drug interdiction to protecting forests to promoting conservation. We rely on their knowledge and professionalism as they make critical decisions, obtain information, and quickly dispatch needed aid.
America's public safety telecommunicators serve our citizens daily in countless ways. The work of these "unseen first responders" is invaluable in emergency situations, and each of these dedicated men and women deserves our heartfelt appreciation. Americans place their trust in these individuals, not just this week, but every day of the year. This week is a time for a grateful Nation to show its appreciation and to recognize that our health, safety, and well-being are often dependent on the commitment and steadfast devotion of public safety telecommunicators.
The Congress, by Public Law 103–221, has designated the week beginning April 11, 1994, as "National Public Safety Telecommunicators Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of April 11, 1994, as National Public Safety Telecommunicators Week. I urge all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, activities, and appreciation for these outstanding individuals.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twelfth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON