By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The discovery and subsequent development of the United States evolved through the exploration and utilization of the abundant waterways of this great Nation. During the territorial expansion, our founders could scarcely have dreamed of the significant role our vast water resources would ultimately play in commerce, agriculture, industry, energy production, and boundless recreational activities. This year it is anticipated that more than 70 million Americans will enjoy on-the-water recreation throughout our country.
While boating can be a wonderful source of pleasure, improperly handled watercraft can be dangerous and sometimes even deadly. Tragically, approximately 800 persons die each year in boating-related accidents in our Nation alone. Because most of these accidents can be prevented, the United States Coast Guard and other Government agencies are working with volunteer organizations around the country to educate the boating public and to make safety the number one priority for all who use the Nation's waterways.
It is imperative that those enjoying the privilege of aquatic recreational activities must accept the responsibility of ensuring safety on the water. For boaters, this means respecting the marine environment, being well-informed, carrying, maintaining, and using the proper equipment, and remaining sober. Only then will boaters be prepared to prevent hazardous situations or deal with them if they arise. When boat operators and their passengers disregard their personal responsibilities, the consequences can be serious and direct. Statistics indicate that about 50 percent of boating accidents are alcohol-related and that more than 85 percent of the people who die while boating are not wearing personal flotation devices.
Accordingly, this year during National Safe Boating Week, proclaimed annually at the start of the summer boating season, recreational boaters are urged to heed the call of responsibility—to "Boat Smart, Boat Safe, Boat Sober."
In recognition of the need to promote safe boating practices, the Congress by joint resolution approved June 4, 1958 (36 U.S.C. 161), as amended, has authorized and requested the President to proclaim annually the week commencing on the first Sunday in June as "National Safe Boating Week."
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning June 5, 1994, as National Safe Boating Week. I encourage the Governors of the 50 States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and officials of other areas subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, to provide for the observance of this week. I also urge all Americans to become informed and to always practice safe recreational boating.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-seventh day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON