By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
1. In accordance with section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended ("the Act") (7 U.S.C. 624), the Secretary of Agriculture has advised me that he has reason to believe that wheat, classified in heading 1001 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTS), is being or is practically certain to be imported into the United States under such conditions and in such quantities as to render or tend to render ineffective, or materially interfere with, the price support, payment, and production adjustment program for wheat conducted by the Department of Agriculture.
2. Based upon this advice, I directed the United States International Trade Commission ("the Commission") to initiate an investigation with respect to this matter under section 22 of the Act.
3. Based on the investigation and report of the Commission, I have determined that certain articles of wheat are being imported or are practically certain to be imported into the United States under such conditions and in such quantities as to materially interfere with the price support, payment, and production adjustment program for wheat conducted by the Department of Agriculture. Further, I have determined that the imposition of the tariff-rate quotas, as hereinafter proclaimed, is necessary in order that the entry, or withdrawal from warehouse for consumption, of such articles will not materially interfere with the price support, payment, and production adjustment program for wheat conducted by the Department of Agriculture. I have also determined that imports of wheat from Canada have increased significantly as a result of a substantial change in the wheat support programs of the United States and Canada.
4. Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483), authorizes the President to embody in the HTS the substance of relevant provisions of that Act, of other Acts affecting import treatment, and of actions taken thereunder.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, acting under the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, including but not limited to section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended, and section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, do proclaim that:
(1) In order to establish tariff-rate quotas on imports of certain wheat, subchapter IV of chapter 99 of the HTS is modified as set forth in the Annex to this proclamation.
(2) For durum wheat entered during a specified quota year, other than qualifying goods of Mexico or seed wheat, the aggregate quantity exceeding 300,000,000 kilograms but not exceeding 450,000,000 kilograms is subject to the in-quota rate of duty established in such Annex and the aggregate quantity exceeding 450,000,000 kilograms is subject to the over-quota rate of duty established in such Annex. For other wheat and meslin entered during a specified quota year, other than qualifying goods of Mexico or white winter wheat, the aggregate quantity exceeding 1,050,000,000 kilograms is subject to the over-quota rate of duty established in the Annex.
(3) The modifications made by this proclamation shall be effective with respect to articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after September 12, 1994, and before the close of September 11, 1995, unless expressly suspended, modified, or terminated.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON