By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
In light of the actions of the Bosnian Serb forces and the authorities in the territory they control, including their refusal to accept the proposed territorial settlement of the conflict in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and of United Nations Security Council Resolution 942 of September 23, 1994, I have determined that it is in the interests of the United States to restrict the entry to the United States of all aliens described in paragraph 14 of United Nations Security Council Resolution 942.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, acting under the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, including sections 212(f) and 215 of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, as amended (8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, hereby find that the unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens described in section 1 of this proclamation would, except as provided for in section 2 of this proclamation, be detrimental to the interests of the United States. I do therefore proclaim that:
Section 1. The immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens described in paragraph 14 of United Nations Security Council Resolution 942 is hereby suspended. These aliens are: (a) members of the authorities, including legislative authorities, in those areas of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the control of Bosnian Serb forces; officers of the Bosnian Serb military and paramilitary forces; and those acting on behalf of such authorities or forces;
(b) persons found, after September 23, 1994, to have provided financial, material, logistical, military, or other tangible support to Bosnian Serb forces in violation of relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions; and
(c) persons in or resident in those areas of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the control of Bosnian Serb forces found to have violated or contributed to the violation of the measures set out in United Nations Security Council Resolution 820 of April 17, 1993, and United Nations Security Council Resolution 942 of September 23, 1994.
Sec. 2. Section 1 shall not apply with respect to any alien otherwise covered by section 1 where the entry of such alien is in the interests of the United States, including where such entry has been approved as prescribed by paragraph 14 of United Nations Security Council Resolution 942.
Sec. 3. Aliens covered by sections 1 and 2 shall be identified pursuant to procedures established by the Secretary of State, as authorized in section 5 below.
Sec. 4. This proclamation shall take effect at 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on October 25, 1994, and shall remain in effect until such time as the Secretary of State determines that it is no longer necessary and should be terminated.
Sec. 5. The Secretary of State shall have responsibility to implement this proclamation pursuant to procedures that the Secretary may establish.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON