By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Since July 18, 1947, the United States has administered the United Nations Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands ("Trust Territory"), which has included the Northern Mariana Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, and Palau.
On November 3, 1986, a Covenant between the United States
and the Northern Mariana Islands came into force. This Covenant
established the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands as
a self-governing Commonwealth in political union with and under
the sovereignty of the United States.
On October 21, 1986, in the case of the Republic of the
Marshall Islands, and on November 3, 1986, in the case of the
Federated States of Micronesia, Compacts of Free Association
with the United States became effective. Under the Compacts,
the Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the
Marshall Islands became self-governing sovereign states, in free
association with the United States. Following the changes in
political status of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Marshall
Islands, and the Federated States of Micronesia, the Trusteeship
Agreement ceased to be applicable to those entities and only
Palau remained as the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.
On January 10, 1986, the Government of the United States
and the Government of Palau concluded a Compact of Free
Association similar to those that the United States entered into
with the Republic of the Marshall Islands and with the Federated
States of Micronesia. As in those instances, it was specified
that the Compact with Palau would come into effect upon
(1) mutual agreement between the Government of the
United States, acting in fulfillment of its responsibilities
as Administering Authority of the Trust Territory of the
Pacific Islands, and the Government of Palau; (2) the approval
of the Compact by the two Governments, in accordance with their
constitutional processes; and (3) the approval of the Compact by
plebiscite in Palau.
In Palau the Compact has been approved by the Government
in accordance with its constitutional processes and by a
United Nations-observed plebiscite on November 9, 1993, a
sovereign act of self-determination. In the United States the
Compact was approved by Public Law 99–658 of November 14, 1986,
and Public Law 101–219 of December 12, 1989.
On May 25, 1994, the Trusteeship Council of the
United Nations concluded that the Government of the
United States had satisfactorily discharged its obligations
as the Administering Authority under the terms of the
Trusteeship Agreement and that the people of Palau had freely
exercised their right to self-determination and considered
that it was appropriate for the Trusteeship Agreement to be
terminated. The Council asked the United States to consult
with the Government of Palau and to agree on a date, on or
about October 1, 1994, for entry into force of their new status
agreement.
On July 15, 1994, the Government of the United States and
the Government of the Republic of Palau agreed, pursuant to
section 411 of the Compact of Free Association, that as between
the United States and the Republic of Palau, the effective date
of the Compact shall be October 1, 1994.
As of this day, September 27, 1994, the United States has
fulfilled its obligations under the Trusteeship Agreement with
respect to the Republic of Palau. On October 1, 1994, the
Compact will enter into force between the United States and the
Republic of Palau, and Palau will thereafter be self-governing
and no longer subject to the Trusteeship. In taking these
actions, the United States is implementing the freely expressed
wishes of the people of Palau.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of
the United States of America, by the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and laws of the United States, including
sections 101 and 102 of the Joint Resolution to approve the
"Compact of Free Association" between the United States and
the Government of Palau, and for other purposes, approved on
November 14, 1986 (Public Law 99–658), and section 101 of the
Joint Resolution to authorize entry into force of the Compact
of Free Association between the United States and the Government
of Palau, and for other purposes, approved on December 12, 1989
(Public Law 101–219), and pursuant to section 1002 of the
Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
Islands in Political Union with the United States of America,
and consistent with sections 101 and 102 of the Joint Resolution
to approve the "Compact of Free Association" and for other
purposes, approved on January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99–239),
do hereby find, declare, and proclaim as follows:
Section 1. I determine that the Trusteeship Agreement for
the Pacific Islands will be no longer in effect with respect to
the Republic of Palau as of October 1, 1994, at one minute past
one o'clock p.m. local time in Palau. This constitutes the
determination referred to in section 1002 of the Covenant with
the Northern Mariana Islands (Public Law 94–241).
Sec. 2. The Compact of Free Association with the Republic
of Palau will be in full force and effect as of October 1, 1994,
at one minute past one o'clock p.m. local time in Palau.
Sec. 3. I am gratified that the people of the Republic
of Palau, after 47 years of Trusteeship, have freely chosen
to establish a relationship of Free Association with the
United States.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this
twenty-seventh day of September, in the year of our Lord
nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of
the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON