By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
 ), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
 ), section 5 of the United Nations Participation Act of 1945, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, in view of United Nations Security Council Resolution 917 of May 6, 1994, and in order to take additional steps with respect to the actions and policies of the
de facto
 regime in Haiti and the national emergency described and declared in Executive Order No. 12775, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses, which may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the effective date of this order, all funds and financial resources of: (a) all officers of the Haitian military, including the police, and their immediate families;
(b) the major participants in the coup d'йtat in Haiti of 1991 and in the illegal governments since the coup d'йtat, and their immediate families; and
(c) those employed by or acting on behalf of the Haitian military, and their immediate families; that are or hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of United States persons, including their overseas branches, are blocked.
Sec. 2. The following are prohibited, notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the effective date of this order, except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, authorizations, or licenses that may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order: (a) the granting of permission to any aircraft to take off from, land in, or overfly the territory of the United States, if the aircraft, as part of the same flight or as a continuation of that flight, is destined to land in or has taken off from the territory of Haiti, with the exception of regularly scheduled commercial passenger flights; (b) any transaction by any United States person that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order.
Sec. 3. The definitions contained in section 3 of Executive Order No. 12779 apply to the terms used in this order.