By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
 ), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
 ), section 5 of the United Nations Participation Act of 1945, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in order to take additional steps with respect to the actions and policies of the
de facto
 regime in Haiti and the national emergency described and declared in Executive Order No. 12775, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order, all property and interests in property of:
(a) any Haitian national resident in Haiti; or
(b) any other person subject to the blocking provisions of Executive Order Nos. 12775, 12779, 12853, 12872, or 12914 and Haitian citizens who are members of the immediate family of any such person, as identified by the Secretary of the Treasury;
that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of United States persons, including their overseas branches, are blocked. This section shall not apply to property of nongovernmental organizations engaged in the provision of essential humanitarian assistance in Haiti or in the conduct of refugee and migration operations in Haiti, as identified by the Secretary of the Treasury. Payments and transfers previously authorized by Executive Order No. 12920 of June 10, 1994, may continue to be made in a manner directed by the Secretary of the Treasury.
Sec. 2. Any transaction by a United States person that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 3. For the purposes of this order:
(a) The term "Haitian national" means a citizen of Haiti or an entity organized under the laws of Haiti.
(b) The definitions contained in section 3 of Executive Order No. 12779 apply to the terms used in this order.
Sec. 4. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to me by the International Emergency Economic Powers Act and the United Nations Participation Act, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of the United States Government. All agencies of the United States Government are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order, including suspension or termination of licenses or other authorizations in effect as of the effective date of this order.
Sec. 5. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against the United States, its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.
Sec. 6.
(a) This order shall take effect at 10:09 p.m., eastern daylight time on June 21, 1994.
(b) This order shall be transmitted to the Congress and published in the
Federal Register
 .
William J. Clinton
10:09 p.m. 6–21–94
The White House,
June 21, 1994.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:33 a.m., June 22, 1994]