By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Just weeks ago, scientists announced that they had identified a gene whose mutation causes hereditary breast cancer. Although the effects of this exciting discovery may not be realized for some time, as we mark National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, 1994, families and friends across the country have much to celebrate. American women have greater access to breast cancer screening than ever before. In addition to the latest advances in medical research, we have made significant strides in early detection and treatment, immeasurably improving women's chances for survival. Our knowledge of what causes this disease is expanding, and, bolstered by a firm national commitment to basic research, scientists continue to develop new and more effective methods of treatment. With each small step forward, we are saving women's lives.
Still, an estimated 182,000 American women will be diagnosed with breast cancer this year. Almost 43,000 will die. It remains the second leading cause of cancer death among American women. The health care community has worked tirelessly to educate Americans about the importance of early detection, but many women postpone recommended check-ups and do not yet practice regular self-examination. We must work to make sure that all women are informed about the dangers of breast cancer, are aware of the life-saving potential of early detection, and have access to the high-quality care for which our Nation is known around the world. Every one of us can and must take an active role in the fight against breast cancer.
As we strive to ensure that our health care system meets the needs of all of our citizens, we must be certain that women receive proper screening for breast cancer. In concert with self-examination and clinical check-ups, mammography can be invaluable. Many cancers can be detected on a mammogram as early as 2 years before they would be noticed by a woman or her physician. Third-party reimbursement for mammography is increasing, Medicare now covers much of the cost of screening for women ages 65 or older, and many States now have laws requiring private insurers to offer coverage for this procedure. And a major effort is under way to inform employers about how businesses can provide screening mammography. I urge every State government, insurance company, medical facility, and business to follow these examples and to develop policies that incorporate this essential test.
Americans have always relied on partnerships to confront the many trials of daily life: partnerships between mothers and fathers to care for their children, partnerships between teachers and students to prepare for the challenges of the future. So, too, we must depend on one another if we are to succeed in the battle against breast cancer. Mothers and daughters, patients and physicians, public and private sector alike—every one of us must bear responsibility for our health and the health of our loved ones. By sharing the lessons of proper nutrition in preventing cancer, by emphasizing the importance of regular breast examination, and by maintaining an unswerving national commitment to basic research, all of us can be life savers.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 185, has designated the month of October 1994, as "National Breast Cancer Awareness Month."
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of October 1994, as National Breast Cancer Awareness Month. I invite the Governors of the 50 States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Mayor of the District of Columbia, and the appropriate officials of all other areas under the American flag to issue similar proclamations. I also ask health care professionals, members of private industry, community groups, insurance companies, and all other interested organizations and individuals to unite in reaffirming our Nation's continuing commitment to controlling breast cancer.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twelfth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON