By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
In 1961, when President John F. Kennedy first proclaimed Law Day, U.S.A., he urged "Americans to rededicate themselves to the ideals of equality and justice under law in their relations with each other and with other nations. ..."
President Kennedy's challenge is no less urgent today. We live in a time when nations around the globe are struggling to break free from the darkness of oppression into the light of law and justice. To many of the people of these countries, the American rule of law stands as a bright beacon guiding the way to a hopeful future. Law Day, U.S.A., offers every American the opportunity to reflect upon our Nation's proud example of respect for the rights of individuals. More than that, this day demands that we reaffirm our commitment to maintaining a just and civil society in a rapidly changing world.
With the triumph of democratic governments and judiciaries around the world, it seems particularly disturbing that our own legal system is tested daily by the epidemic of crime and violence here at home. In America today, too many children must pass through metal detectors to go to school. Too many are approached by drug dealers in public parks, or worry that they will be victims of drive-by shootings. The primary responsibility of government is to protect the freedom of its citizens and to keep them safe from harm. Our tradition of jurisprudence is the powerful embodiment of this ideal. But it is up to each of us to help ensure that this system remains true to its essential mission—freeing our people from fear while protecting the liberties and rights of all.
On this day, I urge every American to support those who fight to promote respect for the law, from police officers, judges, and other members of the legal system to parents, teachers, and clergy. Let us find the strength to insist that law prevails over disorder, equality over discrimination, and justice over crime and prejudice. Let reverence for the laws, in the words of President Abraham Lincoln, "be taught in schools, in seminaries, and in colleges; let it be written in primers, spelling books, and in almanacs; let it be preached from the pulpit, proclaimed in legislative halls, and enforced in the courts of justice. ..."
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, in accordance with Public Law 87-20 of April 7, 1961, do hereby proclaim May 1, 1994, as "Law Day, U.S.A." I request the people of the United States to observe this day with such ceremonies and observances as will suitably signal our heritage of freedom, our rights under law, and our abiding commitment to assist others in vindicating their rights.
I urge members of the legal profession, civic associations, and the media, as well as educators, librarians, and public officials, to promote this observance through appropriate programs and activities. I further call upon all public officials to display the flag of the United States on all government buildings on Law Day, U.S.A., as a symbol of our dedication to the rule of government under law.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON