By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
1. Pursuant to section 504(c) of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended ("Trade Act") (19 U.S.C. 2464(c)), beneficiary developing countries, except those designated as least-developed beneficiary developing countries pursuant to section 504(c)(6) of the Trade Act, are subject to limitations on the preferential treatment afforded under the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP). I have determined, pursuant to sections 504(a)(1), (c)(1), and (c)(2) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2464(a)(1), (c)(1), and (c)(2)), that certain beneficiary developing countries should no longer receive preferential tariff treatment under the GSP with respect to certain eligible articles.
2. To reflect clearly the names of certain beneficiary developing countries under the GSP, I have decided that it is necessary and appropriate to modify general note 4 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTS).
3. In Proclamation No. 6767 of February 3, 1995, conforming changes with respect to certain articles under the GSP were omitted. I have decided that it is necessary and appropriate to modify the HTS to make such conforming changes.
4. Proclamation No. 6763 of December 23, 1994, implemented the Uruguay Round Agreements, including Schedule XX, with respect to the United States and incorporated in the HTS tariff modifications necessary and appropriate to carry out the Uruguay Round Agreements. Certain technical errors, including inadvertent omissions, were made in that proclamation. I have determined that it is necessary to reflect accurately the intended tariff treatment provided for in the Uruguay Round Agreements to modify certain provisions of the HTS as set forth in Annex III to this proclamation.
5. Section 604 of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2483) authorizes the President to embody in the HTS the substance of the relevant provisions of that Act, and of other Acts affecting import treatment, and actions thereunder, including the removal, modification, continuance, or imposition of any rate of duty or other import restriction.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, acting under the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, including but not limited to sections 504 and 604 of the Trade Act, do proclaim that:
(1)(a) To make certain conforming changes, the Rates of Duty 1-Special subcolumn for each of the HTS subheadings enumerated in Annex I(A) to this proclamation is modified: (i) by deleting the symbol "A*" in parentheses, and (ii) by inserting the symbol "A" in lieu thereof.
(b) To provide that one or more countries should no longer be treated as a beneficiary developing country with respect to an eligible article for purposes of the GSP, the Rates of Duty 1-Special subcolumn for each of the HTS provisions enumerated in Annex I(B) to this proclamation is modified: (i) by deleting the symbol "A" in parentheses, and (ii) by inserting the symbol "A*" in lieu thereof.
(2) To reflect clearly the names of certain beneficiaries and to provide that one or more countries are no longer to be treated as beneficiary developing countries with respect to an eligible article for purposes of the GSP, general note 4 to the HTS is modified as provided in Annex II to this proclamation.
(3) The HTS is modified as provided in Annex III to this proclamation.
(4) Any provisions of previous proclamations and Executive orders inconsistent with the provisions of this proclamation are hereby superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.
(5)(a) The modifications made by Annexes I and II to this proclamation shall be effective with respect to articles both: (i) imported on or after January 1, 1976, and (ii) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after July 1, 1995.
(b) The modifications made by Annex III to this proclamation shall be effective with respect to articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after the dates specified in such annex.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON