By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) (the "Act"), and in order to establish a Commission on United States-Pacific Trade and Investment Policy, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the Commission on United States-Pacific Trade and Investment Policy ("Commission"). The Commission shall be composed of 15 members to be appointed by the President. Members shall (1) be chosen from the private sector (businesses, unions, academic institutions, and nonprofit corporations); and (2) have substantial experience with selling agricultural products, manufactured goods, or high-value-added services to Asian and Pacific markets or be knowledgeable from their personal or professional experience about the trade barriers or their industry and government policies and practices, formal and informal, that have restricted access by U.S. business to Asian and Pacific markets.
(b) The President shall designate a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from among the members of the Commission.
Sec. 2. Functions. (a) On or before February 1, 1996, the Commission shall report to the President on the steps the United States should take to achieve a significant opening of Japan, China, and other Asian and Pacific markets to U.S. business. The report also shall identify trade and investment impediments to U.S. business in Asian and Pacific markets and provide recommendations for reducing the impediments. The report's recommendations shall reflect the goal of securing increased access for U.S. business to Asian and Pacific markets, by the turn of the century, in such a way that a maximum number of high-wage jobs are created and maintained in the United States. The Commission also shall recommend to the President (1) measures to strengthen, if necessary, ongoing programs for regular monitoring of progress toward this goal, including the periodic assessment of the nature and scope of trade and investment impediments; and (2) realistic measurements of trade and investment activity in Asia and the Pacific, which consider all relevant factors, including the composition of trade and intracompany trade and investment patterns.
(b) The Commission shall decide by a three-fifths vote which recommendations to include in the report. At the request of any Commission member, the report will include that Commission member's dissenting views or opinions.
(c) The Commission may, for the purpose of carrying out its functions, hold meetings at such times and places as the Commission may find advisable.
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) To the extent permitted by law, the heads of executive departments, agencies, and independent instrumentalities shall provide the Commission, upon request, with such information as it may require for the purposes of carrying out its functions.
(b) Upon request of the Chairperson of the Commission, the head of any Federal agency or instrumentality shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the discretion of such head, (1) make any of the facilities and services of such agency or instrumentality available to the Commission; and (2) detail any of the personnel of such agency or instrumentality to the Commission to assist the Commission in carrying out its duties.
(c) Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation for their work on the Commission. While engaged in the work of the Commission, members appointed from the private sector may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707) to the extent funds are available for such purposes.
(d) To the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations, the Department of Commerce shall provide the Commission with administrative services, facilities, staff, and other support services necessary for performance of the Commission's functions.
(e) The United States Trade Representative shall perform the functions of the President under the Act, except that of reporting to the Congress, in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services.
(f) The Commission shall adhere to the requirements set forth in the Act. All executive branch officials assigned duties by the Act shall comply with its requirements with respect to the Commission.
Sec. 4. General Provision. The Commission shall terminate 30 days after submitting its final report.
William J. Clinton
The White House,
June 21, 1995.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 2:39 p.m., June 22, 1995]