By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
As children finish the school year and families begin to enjoy the long days of summer, Americans across the country reach out to their fathers in thanks. Every year, Father's Day gives us a chance to spend time with our families and to honor the bond between parent and child. It is a moment for dads to find joy in the blessings that fatherhood brings. And it is a day for remembering that children can grow up immeasurably stronger with the gift of a father's love.
The most fortunate among us can claim warm memories of our fathers' lessons—times when dads can be models of energy and patience. Whether encouraging their children in taking their first steps, riding a bike or meeting other challenges in life, fathers teach us the importance of balance and stand behind us until we're steady. Through the scrapes and self-doubts that every young person confronts, fathers can be our role models and heroes, soothing childhood fears and instilling the steady values of hard work and fair play. They are our guidance counselors and our best friends. Their faith inspires us to try again when we fail and fills us with pride when we succeed. As coaches and caregivers, teachers and workers, fathers who make parenthood a priority earn their families' lasting respect.
We Americans rely on our fathers for courage and compassion, and the security of having them with us gives us confidence in all of our endeavors. On this special day, let America's sons and daughters show their fathers that they care. Let us continue to strive for a world in which every child grows up safe—a world in which every child knows that though they may feel sometimes unsteady, their fathers are behind them always.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, in accordance with a joint resolution of the Congress approved April 24, 1972 (36 U.S.C. 142a), do hereby proclaim Sunday, June 18, 1995, as "Father's Day." I invite the States, communities, and citizens of the United States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities that demonstrate our deep appreciation and affection for our fathers.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twelfth day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON