By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The United States owes much to our merchant sailors. At our Nation's beginning, these outstanding citizens opened new avenues of commerce and helped nurture a fledgling democracy into a beacon of freedom for people around the world. Since President Franklin D. Roosevelt first proclaimed National Maritime Day 62 years ago, the U.S. Merchant Marine has built on its legacy of patriotism. Its great tradition of courage and valor is an inspiration to all Americans.
This year, as we honor those who served and sacrificed for our Nation during World War II, the contributions of the U.S. Merchant Marine are a special source of pride. We will always remember the heroism of those mariners and the dangers they faced to protect our liberty.
America's Merchant Marine and civilian seafarers have put themselves at risk time and again to support our Armed Forces. They provided pivotal service during OPERATION DESERT STORM, during America's humanitarian mission in Somalia, and throughout OPERATION RESTORE DEMOCRACY in Haiti.
Today, our country remains determined to maintain a strong U.S. flag presence on the high seas, a commitment central to advancing our Nation's national and economic security. I urge Americans to join efforts in support of maritime revitalization legislation and our ongoing shipbuilding production program. Americans' pioneering spirit has endowed our Nation with the most innovative maritime technologies and the most skilled innovative maritime technologies and the most skilled maritime labor force on Earth. Working together, we can preserve this critical advantage for generations to come.
In recognition of the importance of the U.S. Merchant Marine, the Congress, by a joint resolution approved May 20, 1933, has designated May 22 of each year as "National Maritime Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue annually a proclamation calling for its appropriate observance.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim May 22, 1995, as National Maritime Day. I urge the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities and by displaying the flag of the United States at their homes and in their communities. I also request that all ships sailing under the American flag dress ship on that day.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON