By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
A clean bill of health is one of life's most precious gifts. But for many Americans, and for millions around the world, good health can seem almost a luxury. The AIDS epidemic, the prevalence of poor nutrition, unplanned pregnancies, and environmental degradation—these are just some of the pressing crises facing hardworking public health officials everywhere. While our society's medical technology has advanced to a level unimaginable to the generations before, the crucial job of ensuring basic public health for all remains just beyond our reach.
Now, more than ever, public health programs and services are needed so that we can ensure the best possible health for everyone. Providing safe living and working environments, developing methods to immunize populations against infectious disease, maintaining good nutritional standards, and having good prenatal care for everyone are vital endeavors—and such primary and preventive measures can mean the difference between life and death.
Every day, thousands of individuals across our country are working to build healthy communities, meet the needs of our diverse population, plan appropriate responses to natural disasters, educate individuals about workplace hazards, and encourage responsible behavior in all that we do. Their leadership is helping America to address one of humanity's most essential concerns, and their service is building a safer, healthier future for all of our people.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week of April 3 through April 9, 1995, as "National Public Health Week." I call upon all Federal, State, and local public health agencies to join with appropriate private organizations and educational institutions in celebrating this occasion with activities to promote healthy lifestyles and to heighten awareness of the many benefits good health brings.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON