By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The essence of America is the quality and breadth of the freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution. Yet far too often in our country's history, the price of preserving these freedoms has been the lives of our Nation's young men and women and the heartbreak of their families and friends. The light and laughter of our lost sons and daughters can never be replaced. But the gift of their courage will always endure. America remembers the sacrifices of those who gave their lives to protect our liberty. For our citizens and for freedom-loving people around the world, they have kept democracy's flame burning brightly.
Forged in revolution and tempered by more than two centuries of fighting injustice, America has grown stronger, determined to safeguard the blessings that have been so hard-won. As we recall the selfless devotion of those who have risen to defend the cause of freedom, we resolve today that their efforts shall not have been in vain. America still holds fast to the principles upon which it was founded, and its people still stand bound together by our common faith in peace. In remembrance of our fallen heroes, we pray that peace will forever grace our land, that it will guide relations between citizens and friendships among nations, and that our people will one day see a time when harmony fills the Earth.
May God comfort all who mourn.
In respect and recognition of the courageous men and women to whom we pay tribute, the Congress, by joint resolution approved on May 11, 1950 (64 Stat. 158), has requested the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United States to observe each Memorial Day as a day of prayer for permanent peace and designating a period on that day when the people of the United States might unite in prayer.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Memorial Day, May 29, 1995, as a day of prayer for permanent peace. I designate the hour beginning in each locality at 11 o'clock in the morning of that day as a time to join in prayer. I urge the press, radio, television, and all information media to take part in this observance.
I also request the Governors of the United States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the appropriate officials of all units of government, to direct that the flag be flown at half-staff until noon during this Memorial Day on all buildings, grounds, and naval vessels throughout the United States and in all areas under its jurisdiction and control, and I request the people of the United States to display the flag at half-staff from their homes for the customary forenoon period.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON