By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
For many of the 24 million teenagers in the United States today, the future can seem uncertain and distant. Confronted with challenges the likes of which their parents could scarcely have imagined, many of our young people are too busy with the trials of daily life to spend much time hoping and dreaming. But empowered with the courage to try, all teens—even those who may feel troubled and lost—have the potential to succeed.
The choices teens make today will determine the future for all of us, and we must strive to set an example of hard work and responsible behavior. On the occasion of National Good Teen Day, we pause to recognize the teens who set just such an example for their peers—young people who make invaluable contributions to our society, bringing their remarkable talents and energies to bear in their studies and activities, in caring for their families and friends, and in helping their communities. We can learn a lot from these youth, from the creativity, optimism, and resilience that enable them to navigate the complex path to adulthood.
In return for all they give, teens need our understanding, compassion, and love. They require our attention, and they deserve our respect. America's young people have so much to look forward to, so much to share with our world. With firm guidance and gentle reassurance, we can help teenagers to recognize their strengths and realize their dreams.
In celebration of teens throughout the Nation, the Congress, by Public Law 103-463, has designated January 16, 1995, as "National Good Teen Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim January 16, 1995, as National Good Teen Day. I urge all Americans to observe this day with appropriate programs and activities.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eleventh day of January, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON