By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Countless Americans have traveled to Washington, D.C., to visit the new Korean War Veterans Memorial and to pay their respects at the many other monuments honoring the members of our Armed Forces. These sites are places for reflection, pride, and patriotism, not only for the men and women who served and those who lost loved ones, but also for every citizen who values the sacrifices to which these monuments bear witness.
As we look upon America's public memorials, we also remember the unseen tributes that dwell in homes and hearts across the country—the personal mementos and memories treasured by mothers who have lost a child in military service. Our Gold Star Mothers reflect the legacy of their sons' and daughters' bravery and ensure that their children will never be forgotten—that their courage will inspire new generations.
Watching a beloved child go off to war is one of the hardest things a parent can endure. America's Gold Star Mothers proudly stood this test and suffered the terrible anxiety of waiting for word of their loved ones. Each of these heroic women was also called upon to bear the greatest hardship of all—the cruel truth that her son or daughter would never return.
These mothers gave their most cherished gift so that our Nation could live in liberty and so that people around the globe could be freed from tyranny and oppression. And Gold Star Mothers continue a proud tradition of service, helping veterans with disabilities through voluntary service in VA medical facilities. Bringing comfort to those who suffered for our country, Gold Star Mothers exemplify the gratitude and honor each citizen owes to America's veterans.
This year, the 50th anniversary of the end of World War II, evokes many powerful emotions—pride in victory, sorrow in loss, and hope for a future of world peace. At times such as these, we join with Gold Star Mothers in remembering their children's dedication to duty and their ultimate sacrifice. We pray that these mothers can find solace in knowing that their sons and daughters helped to keep the beacon of peace and freedom burning, lighting the way to a better world.
In recognition of the outstanding courage of our Gold Star Mothers, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 115 of June 23, 1936 (49 Stat. 1895), has designated the last Sunday in September as "Gold Star Mother's Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim September 24, 1995, as Gold Star Mother's Day. I call upon the American people to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities that honor our Gold Star Mothers.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twentieth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON