Certain executive branch agencies are authorized to conduct investigations of allegations of wrongdoing by employees of the Federal Government. For certain administrative allegations against Inspectors General ("IGs") and, as explained below, against certain staff members of the Offices of Inspectors General ("OIGs"), it is desirable to authorize an independent investigative mechanism.
The Chairperson of the President's Council on Integrity and Efficiency ("PCIE") and the Executive Council on Integrity and Efficiency ("ECIE"), in consultation with members of the Councils, has established an Integrity Committee pursuant to the authority granted by Executive Order No. 12805.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to ensure that administrative allegations against IGs and certain staff members of the OIGs are appropriately and expeditiously investigated and resolved, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. The Integrity Committee. (a) To the extent permitted by law, and in accordance with this order, the Integrity Committee shall receive, review, and refer for investigation allegations of wrongdoing against IGs and certain staff members of the OIGs.
(b) The Integrity Committee shall consist of at least the following members:
(1) The official of the Federal Bureau of Investigation ("FBI") serving on the PCIE, as designated by the Director of the FBI. The
FBI member shall serve as Chair of the Integrity Committee.
(2) The Special Counsel of the Office of Special Counsel;
(3) The Director of the Office of Government Ethics;
(4) Three or more IGs, representing both the PCIE and the ECIE, appointed by the Chairperson of the PCIE/ECIE.
(c) The Chief of the Public Integrity Section of the Criminal Division of the Department of Justice, or his designee, shall serve as an advisor to the Integrity Committee with respect to its responsibilities and functions in accordance with this order.
Sec. 2. Referral of Allegations. (a) The Integrity Committee shall review all allegations of wrongdoing it receives against an IG who is a member of the PCIE or ECIE, or against a staff member of an OIG acting with the knowledge of the IG or when the allegation against the staff person is related to an allegation against the IG, except that where an allegation concerns a member of the Integrity Committee, that member shall recuse himself from consideration of the matter.
(b) An IG shall refer any administrative allegation against a senior staff member to the Integrity Committee when:
(1) review of the substance of the allegation cannot be assigned to an agency of the executive branch with appropriate jurisdiction over the matter; and
(2) the IG determines that an objective internal investigation of the allegation, or the appearance thereof, is not feasible.
(c) The Integrity Committee shall determine if there is a substantial likelihood that the allegation, referred to it under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, discloses a violation of any law, rule or regulation, or gross mismanagement, gross waste of funds or abuse of authority and shall refer the allegation to the agency of the executive branch with appropriate jurisdiction over the matter. However, if a potentially meritorious administrative allegation cannot be referred to an agency of the executive branch with appropriate jurisdiction over the matter, the Integrity Committee shall certify the matter to its Chair, who shall cause a thorough and timely investigation of the allegation to be conducted in accordance with this order.
(d) If the Integrity Committee determines that an allegation does not warrant further action, it shall close the matter without referral for investigation and notify the Chairperson of the PCIE/ECIE of its determination.
Sec. 3. Authority to Investigate. (a) The Director of the FBI, through his designee serving as Chairperson of the Integrity Committee, is authorized and directed to consider and, where appropriate, to investigate administrative allegations against the IGs and, in limited cases as described in sections 2(a) and 2(b) above, against other staff members of the OIGs, when such allegations cannot be assigned to another agency of the executive branch and are referred by the Integrity Committee pursuant to section 2(c) of this order.
(b) At the request of the Director of the FBI, through his designee serving as Chairperson, heads of agencies and entities represented in the PCIE and ECIE may, to the extent permitted by law, provide resources necessary to the Integrity Committee. Employees from those agencies and entities will be detailed to the Integrity Committee, subject to the control and direction of the Chairperson, to conduct an investigation pursuant to section 2(c): Provided, that such agencies or entities shall be reimbursed by the agency or entity employing the subject of the investigation. Reimbursement for any costs associated with the detail shall be consistent with applicable law, including but not limited to the Economy Act (31 U.S.C. 1535 and 1536), and subject to the availability of funds.
(c) Nothing in the above delegation shall augment, diminish, or otherwise modify any existing responsibilities and authorities of any other executive branch agency.
Sec. 4. Results of Investigation. (a) The report containing the results of the investigation conducted under the supervision of the Chair of the Integrity Committee shall be provided to the members of the Integrity Committee for consideration.
(b) With respect to those matters where the Integrity Committee has referred an administrative allegation to an agency of the executive branch with appropriate jurisdiction over the matter, the head of that agency shall provide a report to the Integrity Committee concerning the scope and results of the inquiry.
(c) The Integrity Committee shall assess the report received under (a) or (b) of this section and determine whether the results require forwarding of the report, with Integrity Committee recommendations, to the Chairperson of the PCIE/ECIE for resolution. If the Integrity Committee determines that the report requires no further referral or recommendations, it shall so notify the Chairperson of the PCIE/ECIE.
(d) Where the Chairperson of the PCIE/ECIE determines that dissemination of the report to the head of the subject's employing agency or entity is appropriate, the head of the agency or entity shall certify to the Chairperson of the PCIE/ECIE within sixty 60 days that he has personally reviewed the report, what action, if any, has been or is to be taken, and when any action taken will be completed. The PCIE/ECIE Chairperson may grant the head of the entity or agency a 30-day extension when circumstances necessitate such extension.
(e) The Chairperson of the PCIE/ECIE shall report to the Integrity Committee the final disposition of the matter, including what action, if any, has been or is to be taken by the head of the subject's employing agency or entity. When the Integrity Committee receives notice of the final disposition, it shall advise the subject of the investigation that the matter referred to the Integrity Committee for review has been closed.
Sec. 5. Procedures. (a) The Integrity Committee, in conjunction with the Chairperson of the PCIE/ECIE, shall establish the policies and procedures necessary to ensure consistency in conducting investigations and reporting activities under this order.
(b) Such policies and procedures shall specify the circumstances under which the Integrity Committee, upon review of a complaint containing allegations of wrongdoing, may determine that an allegation is without merit and therefore the investigation is unwarranted. A determination by the Integrity Committee that an investigation is unwarranted shall be considered the Integrity Committee's final disposition of the complaint.
(c) The policies and procedures may be expanded to encompass other issues related to the handling of allegations against IGs and others covered by this order.
Sec. 6. Records Maintenance. All records created and received pursuant to this order are records of the Integrity Committee and shall be maintained by the FBI.
Sec. 7. Judicial Review. This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against the United States, its agencies, its officers, or any person.
William J. Clinton
The White House,
March 21, 1996.