By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The history of America is a history of volunteerism. Our people have always worked together to resolve concerns, to fight injustice, to rebuild communities, and to comfort those in need. And though some regard today's society with cynicism and doubt, we need only look to the more than 89.2 million volunteers who work tirelessly throughout the year to see that we are still a people who care for one another and who daily seek positive change by reaching out to others.
We owe a great debt to the many volunteers who work to stem the tides of poverty, hunger, homelessness, crime, and abuse. Examples of unsung heroes exist in every neighborhood—a mother starts an after-school program in her garage to tutor young people in a crime-ridden area; a group of teenagers takes youngsters from a local shelter to the movies or a cultural event a few times a month; an elderly man looks after his neighbor's children so that she can run errands; a family makes regular visits to seniors at a local home. Citizens from all walks of life are working together to claim our Nation's challenges as their own, building bridges among people and setting a powerful example of leadership and compassion.
This week and throughout the year, let us salute all those who devote their time, their talents, and sometimes even their lives to the betterment of our communities. And let us recognize organizations like the Corporation for National and Community Service and the Points of Light Foundation that foster the spirit of service across America. In partnership with government, schools, and religious communities, these caring individuals and groups are expanding and encouraging the great American legacy of volunteerism.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 21 through April 27, 1996, as National Volunteer Week. I call upon all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities to express appreciation for volunteers and to encourage volunteer activities.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this seventeenth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twentieth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON