By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The current regime in Burma continues to detain significant numbers of duly elected members of parliament, National League for Democracy activists, and other persons attempting to promote democratic change in Burma. The regime has failed to enter into serious dialogue with the democratic opposition and representatives of the country's ethnic minorities, has failed to move toward achieving national reconciliation, and has failed to meet internationally recognized standards of human rights.
In light of this continuing political repression, I have determined that it is in the interests of the United States to restrict the entrance into the United States as immigrants and nonimmigrants of certain Burmese nationals who formulate or implement policies that impede Burma's transition to democracy or who benefit from such policies, and the immediate families of such persons.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 by the power vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including sections 212(f) and 215 of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, as amended (8 U.S.C. 1182(f), 1185), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, hereby find that the unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of persons described in section 1 of this proclamation would, except as provided for in section 2 or 3 of this proclamation, be detrimental to the interests of the United States. I therefore, do proclaim that:
Section 1. The entry into the United States as immigrants and nonimmigrants of persons who formulate, implement, or benefit from policies that impede Burma's transition to democracy, and the immediate family members of such persons, is hereby suspended.
Sec. 2. Section 1 shall not apply with respect to any person otherwise covered by section 1 where the Secretary of State determines that the entry of such person would not be contrary to the interests of the United States. Section 1 shall not apply to officials assigned to Burmese missions in the United States or working-level support staff and visitors who support the work of Burmese missions in the United States.
Sec. 3. Persons covered by sections 1 and 2 shall be identified pursuant to procedures established by the Secretary of State, as authorized in section 6 below.
Sec. 4. Nothing in this proclamation shall be construed to derogate from United States Government obligations under applicable international agreements.
Sec. 5. This proclamation is effective immediately and shall remain in effect until such time as the Secretary of State determines that it is no longer necessary and should be terminated.
Sec. 6. The Secretary of State shall have responsibility to implement this proclamation pursuant to procedures the Secretary may establish. The Secretary of State may subdelegate the authorities set forth herein as he deems necessary and appropriate to implement this proclamation.
Sec. 7. This proclamation may be repealed, in whole or in part, at such time as the Secretary of State determines that the Burmese regime has released National League for Democracy members currently being held for political offenses and other pro-democracy activists, enters into genuine dialogue with the democratic opposition, or makes significant progress toward improving the human rights situation in the country.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this third day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-first.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON