By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment. There is established the White House Commission on Aviation Safety and Security (the "Commission"). The Commission shall consist of not more than 25 members, to be appointed by the President from the public and private sectors, each of whom shall have experience or expertise in some aspect of aviation safety or security. The Vice President shall serve as the Chair of the Commission.
Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Commission shall advise the President on matters involving aviation safety and security, including air traffic control.
(b) The Commission shall develop and recommend to the President a strategy designed to improve aviation safety and security, both domestically and internationally.
(c) The Chair may, from time to time, invite experts to submit information to the Commission; hold hearings on relevant issues; and form committees and teams to assist the Commission in accomplishing its objectives and duties, which may include individuals other than members of the Commission.
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) The heads of executive departments and agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Commission such information with respect to aviation safety and security as the Commission requires to fulfill its functions.
(b) The Commission shall be supported, both administratively and financially, by the Department of Transportation and such other sources (including other Federal agencies) as may lawfully contribute to Commission activities.
Sec. 4. General. (a) I have determined that the Commission shall be established in compliance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. 2). Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, shall be performed by the Secretary of Transportation in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services, except that of reporting to the Congress.
(b) The Commission shall exist for a period of 6 months from the date of this order, unless extended by the President.
William J. Clinton
The White House,
August 22, 1996.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., August 26, 1996]