By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, including my authority as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States, it is hereby ordered that Executive Order No. 10163 as amended, is further amended by striking out sections 3 and 4 and inserting in lieu thereof the following new sections 3 and 4:
"3. The Armed Forces Reserve Medal may be awarded to members or former members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces of the United States who meet one or more of the following three criteria.
a. The member has completed a total of 10 years of honorable service in one or more of such reserve components, including annual active duty and inactive duty training as required by appropriate regulations, provided that (1) such 10 years of service was performed within a period of 12 consecutive years, (2) such service shall not include service in a regular component of the armed forces, including the Coast Guard, but (A) service in a reserve component that is concurrent, in whole or in part, with service in a regular component of the armed forces shall be included in computing the required 10 years of reserve service, and (B) any period of time during which reserve service is interrupted by service in a regular component of the armed forces shall be excluded in computing, and shall not be considered a break in, the said period of 12 consecutive years, and (3) such service shall not include service for which the Naval Reserve Medal or the Marine Corps Reserve Medal has been or may be awarded.
b. On or after August 1, 1990, the member was called to active duty and served under sections 12301(a), 12302, 12304, 12406 (formerly sections 672(a), 673, 673b, 3500, and 8500) and Chapter 15 of title 10, United States Code, or, in the case of the United States Coast Guard Reserve, section 712 of title 14, United States Code.
c. On or after August 1, 1990, the member volunteered and served on active duty in support of specific U.S. military operations or contingencies designated by the Secretary of Defense.
4. Not more than one Armed Forces Reserve Medal may be awarded to any one person. The member shall receive the medal with the distinctive design of the reserve component with which the person served at the time of award or in which such person last served. The medal is awarded with the appropriate appurtenance that denotes the manner in which the award was earned, either through completion of 10 years of service, mobilization, or volunteering for, and serving on, active duty in support of operations or contingencies designated by the Secretary of Defense. For each succeeding mobilization, volunteering for, and serving on, active duty in support of operations or contingencies, or 10-year period of service as above described, and a suitable appurtenance may be awarded, to be worn with the medal in accordance with appropriate regulations."
William J. Clinton
The White House,
August 6, 1996.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., August 8, 1996]