By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
There are few among us whose lives have not been touched by the devastating effects of heart disease. Cardiovascular disease, which includes heart disease and stroke, takes one million of our citizens each year, and heart disease remains the single leading cause of death in this country. Millions of Americans suffer from high blood pressure, and millions more have high levels of blood cholesterol. Studies also show sharp increases in the number of people who are overweight and physically inactive.
It is, however, encouraging that public health efforts are raising awareness of the risk factors for cardiovascular disease. Though some—family history and age—are inescapable, the risks posed by high blood pressure and high cholesterol, lack of exercise, smoking, diabetes, and obesity can be greatly reduced through modifications to personal behavior. Advances in research have helped us to gain a better understanding of heart disease, provided new diagnostic methods, and helped develop treatments that save lives and vastly improve the outlook for stricken patients.
We can be proud that the Federal Government has contributed to the fight against heart disease by supporting the efforts of the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, part of the National Institutes of Health, and by promoting new dietary and health guidelines. The American Heart Association, through research, education programs, and the work of its vital network of volunteers, has also played a crucial role.
As we observe American Heart Month, let us build on our achievements by learning more about the causes of heart disease and by making the changes we can to improve our cardiovascular health. Recognizing that even small adjustments to diet and exercise habits can yield significant benefits, we can help those who already suffer from heart disease and encourage those who are taking their first steps toward better, healthier lives.
In recognition of the need for all Americans to become involved in the work to stop heart disease, the Congress, by Joint Resolution approved December 30, 1963 (77 Stat. 843; 36 U.S.C. 169b), has requested that the President issue an annual proclamation designating February as "American Heart Month."
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim February 1996, as American Heart Month. I call upon the Governors of the several States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, officials of other areas subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, and the American people to join me in reaffirming our commitment to combating cardiovascular disease, including heart disease and stroke.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this first day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twentieth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON