Disputes exist between certain railroads represented by the National Railway Labor Conference and their employees represented by certain labor organizations. The railroads and labor organizations involved in these disputes are designated on the attached lists, which are made a part of this order.
These disputes have not heretofore been adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended (45 U.S.C. 151 et seq.) (the "Act").
In the judgment of the National Mediation Board, these disputes threaten substantially to interrupt interstate commerce to a degree that would deprive a section of the country of essential transportation service.
NOW, THEREFORE, by the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, including section 10 of the Act (45 U.S.C. 160), it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment of Emergency Board ("Board"). There is established effective May 17, 1996, a Board of three members to be appointed by the President to investigate the disputes. No member shall be pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of railroad employees or any railroad carrier. The Board shall perform its functions subject to the availability of funds.
Sec. 2. Report. The Board shall report to the President with respect to the dispute within 30 days of its creation.
Sec. 3. Maintaining Conditions. As provided by section 10 of the Act, from the date of the creation of the Board and for 30 days after the Board has made its report to the President, no change, except by agreement of the parties, shall be made by the railroads or the employees in the conditions out of which the disputes arose.
Sec. 4. Records Maintenance. The records and files of the Board are records of the Office of the President and upon the Board’s termination shall be maintained in the physical custody of the National Mediation Board.
Sec. 5. Expiration. The Board shall terminate upon the submission of the report provided for in sections 2 and 3 of this order.
William J. Clinton
THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 17, 1996.
 RAILROADS
Alameda Belt Line Railway Alton & Southern Railroad American Refrigerator Transit Company Arkansas Memphis Bridge Company Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company Bangor and Aroostook Railroad Company Belt Railway Company of Chicago Brownsville & Matamoros Bridge Company Burlington Northern Railroad Company
Allouez Taconite Facility
Brainerd Timber Treating Plant
Western Fruit Express Company
Camas Prairie Railroad Company Canadian National North America Central California Traction Company Chicago Heights Terminal Railroad Chicago Heights Terminal Transfer Railroad Chicago and North Western Railway Company Chicago South Shore and South Bend Railroad Consolidated Rail Corporation CSX Transportation, Inc.
The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company (former)
The Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company (former)
Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company (former)
Seaboard Coast Line Railroad Company (former)
Houston Belt and Terminal Railway Joint Railroad Agency - National Stock Yards The Kansas City Southern Railway Company
CP-Kansas City Southern Joint Agency Kansas City Terminal Railway Company Lake Superior & Ishpeming Railroad Company Los Angeles Junction Railroad Company Missouri Pacific Railroad New Orleans Public Belt Railroad Norfolk and Portsmouth Belt Line Railroad Company Norfolk Southern Corporation Norfolk Southern Railway Company The Alabama Great Southern Railroad Company Atlantic & East Carolina Railway Company Central of Georgia Railroad Company The Cincinnati, New Orleans and Texas Pacific Railway Company Georgia Southern and Florida Railway Company Norfolk & Western Railway Company Tennessee, Alabama and Georgia Railway Company
Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District Peoria and Pekin Union Railway Company The Pittsburgh, Chartiers & Youghiogheny Railway Company Port Terminal Railroad Association Portland Terminal Railroad Company Spokane International Railroad Terminal Railroad Association of St. Louis Texarkana Union Station Trust Company Union Pacific Fruit Express Union Pacific Railroad
Galveston, Houston and Henderson Railroad
Missouri-Kansas-Texas Railroad
Oklahoma, Kansas & Texas Railroad
Western Pacific Railroad Wichita Terminal Association
 LABOR ORGANIZATIONS
Brotherhood of Railroad Signalmen International Association of Machinists & Aerospace Workers, AFL-CIO International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Sheet Metal Workers International Association