By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to provide for the review of the report by the President's Commission on Critical Infrastructure Protection, it is hereby ordered that Executive Order 13010, as amended, is further amended as follows:
Section 1. Section 5(a), as amended, shall be further amended by deleting "15" and inserting "20" in lieu thereof and by deleting "sector" and inserting "and public sectors" in lieu thereof. Section 5(b) shall be amended by inserting "or Co-Chairs" after "Chair".
Sec. 2. Section 6(f), as amended, shall be further amended by deleting ", the Principals Committee, the Steering Committee, and the Advisory Committee" and by inserting a second sentence, which shall read: "The Principals Committee, the Steering Committee, and the Advisory Committee shall terminate no later than March 15, 1998, and, upon submission of the Commission's report, shall review the report and prepare appropriate recommendations to the President." Section 6, as amended, shall be further amended by inserting the following:
"(g) The person who served as Chair of the Commission may continue to be a member of the Steering Committee after termination of the Commission."
Sec. 3. A new section 7 shall be inserted, which reads:
"Sec. 7. Review of Commission's Report. (a) Upon the termination of the Commission as set out in section 6(f) of this order, certain of the Commission's staff may be retained no later than March 15, 1998, solely to assist the Principals, Steering, and Advisory Committees in reviewing the Commission's report and preparing recommendations to the President. They shall act under the direction of the Steering Committee or its designated agent. The Department of Defense shall continue to provide funding and administrative support for the retained Commission staff.
(b) Pursuant to Executive Order 12958, I hereby designate the Executive Secretary of the National Security Council to exercise the authority to classify information originally as "Top Secret" with respect to the work of the Commission staff, the Principals Committee, the Steering Committee, the Advisory Committee, and the Infrastructure Protection Task Force."
Sec. 4. Sections 7 and 8 of Executive Order 13010, as amended, shall be renumbered sections 8 and 9, respectively.
William J. Clinton
The White House,
October 11, 1997.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., October 15, 1997]