By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 101(b) of the Uruguay Round Agreements Act (Public Law 103-465) and section 1 of the International Organizations Immunities Act (22 U.S.C. 288), I hereby implement for the United States the provisions of Article VIII of the Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization.
Section 1. The provisions of the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the Specialized Agencies (U.N. General Assembly Resolution 179 (II) of November 21, 1947, 33 U.N.T.S. 261) shall apply to the World Trade Organization, its officials, and the representatives of its members, provided: (1) sections 19(b) and 15, regarding immunity from taxation, and sections 13(d) and section 20, regarding immunity from national service obligations, shall not apply to U.S. nationals and aliens admitted for permanent residence; (2) with respect to section 13(d) and section 19(c), regarding exemption from immigration restrictions and alien registration requirements, World Trade Organization officials and representatives of its members shall be entitled to the same, and no greater, privileges, exemptions, and immunities as are accorded under similar circumstances to officers and employees of foreign governments, and members of their families; (3) with respect to section 9(a) regarding exemption from taxation, such exemption shall not extend to taxes levied on real property, or that portion of real property, which is not used for the purposes of the World Trade Organization. The leasing or renting by the World Trade Organization of its property to another entity or person to generate revenue shall not be considered a use for the purposes of the World Trade Organization. Whether property or portions thereof are used for the purposes of the World Trade Organization shall be determined within the sole discretion of the Secretary of State or the Secretary's designee; (4) with respect to section 25(2)(II) regarding approval of orders to leave the United States, "Foreign Minister" shall mean the Secretary of State or the Secretary's designee.
Sec. 2. In addition and without impairment to the protections extended above, having found that the World Trade Organization is a public international organization in which the United States participates within the meaning of the International Organizations Immunities Act, I hereby designate the World Trade Organization as a public international organization entitled to enjoy the privileges, exemptions, and immunities conferred by that Act, except that section 6 of that Act, providing exemption from property tax imposed by, or under the authority of, any Act of Congress, shall not extend to taxes levied on property, or that portion of property, that is not used for the purposes of the World Trade Organization. The leasing or renting by the World Trade Organization of its property to another entity or person to generate revenue shall not be considered a use for the purposes of the World Trade Organization. Whether property or portions thereof are used for the purposes of the World Trade Organization shall be determined within the sole discretion of the Secretary of State or the Secretary's designee. This designation is not intended to abridge in any respect privileges, exemptions, or immunities that the World Trade Organization otherwise enjoys or may acquire by international agreements or by congressional action.
William J. Clinton
The White House,
April 9, 1997.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., April 11, 1997]