By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), and in order to support a coordinated effort by both government and private sector entities to address threats to our Nation's critical infrastructure, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the National Infrastructure Assurance Council (NIAC). The NIAC shall be composed of not more than 30 members appointed by the President. The members of the NIAC shall be selected from the private sector, including private sector entities representing the critical infrastructures identified in Executive Order 13010, and from State and local government. The members of the NIAC shall have expertise relevant to the functions of the NIAC and shall not be full-time officials or employees of the executive branch of the Federal Government.
(b) The President shall designate a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson from among the members of the NIAC.
(c) The National Coordinator for Security, Infrastructure Protection and Counter- Terrorism at the National Security Council (National Coordinator) will serve as the Executive Director of the NIAC.
(d) The Senior Director for Critical Infrastructure Protection at the National Security Council will serve as the NIAC's liaison to other agencies.
(e) Individuals appointed by the President will serve for a period of 2 years. Service shall be limited to no more than 3 consecutive terms.
Section 2. Functions. (a) The NIAC will meet periodically to:
(1) enhance the partnership of the public and private sectors in protecting our critical infrastructure and provide reports on this issue to the President as appropriate;
(2) propose and develop ways to encourage private industry to perform periodic risk assessments of critical processes, including information and telecommunications systems; and
(3) monitor the development of Private Sector Information Sharing and Analysis Centers (PSISACs) and provide recommendations to the National Coordinator and the National Economic Council on how these organizations can best foster improved cooperation among the PSISACs, the National Infrastructure Protection Center (NIPC), and other Federal Government entities.
(b) the NIAC will report to the President through the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, who shall assure appropriate coordination with the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy.
(c) The NIAC will advise the lead agencies with critical infrastructure responsibilities, sector coordinators, the NIPC, the PSISACs and the National Coordinator on the subjects of the NIAC's function in whatever manner the Chair of the NIAC, the National Coordinator, and the head of the affected entity deem appropriate.
(d) Senior Federal Government officials will participate in the meetings of the NIAC as appropriate.
(e) The Department of Commerce shall perform the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act for the NIAC, except that of reporting to the Congress, in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services.
Section 3. Administration. To the extent permitted by law:
(a) The NIAC may hold open and closed hearings, conduct inquiries, and establish subcommittees as necessary.
(b) All executive departments and agencies shall cooperate with the NIAC and provide such assistance, information, and advice to the NIAC as it may request, as appropriate.
(c) Members of the NIAC shall serve without compensation for their work on the NIAC. While engaged in the work of the Council, members will be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service.
(d) To the extent permitted by law, and subject to the availability of appropriations, the Department of Commerce, through the Critical Infrastructure Assurance Office, shall provide the NIAC with administrative services, staff, and other support services, and such funds as may be necessary for the performance of its functions.
(e) The Council shall terminate 2 years from the date of this order, unless extended by the President prior to that date.
Section 4. Judicial Review. This order is not intended to create any right, benefit, trust, or responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against the United States, its agencies, its officers, or any person.
William J. Clinton
The White House,
July 14, 1999.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., July 16, 1999]