By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the National Energy Conservation Policy Act (Public Law 95-619, 92 Stat. 3206, 42 U.S.C. 8252 et seq.), as amended by the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (EPACT) (Public Law 102-486, 106 Stat. 2776), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Part 1—Preamble
Section 101. Federal Leadership. The Federal Government, as the Nation's largest energy consumer, shall significantly improve its energy management in order to save taxpayer dollars and reduce emissions that contribute to air pollution and global climate change. With more than 500,000 buildings, the Federal Government can lead the Nation in energy efficient building design, construction, and operation. As a major consumer that spends $200 billion annually on products and services, the Federal Government can promote energy efficiency, water conservation, and the use of renewable energy products, and help foster markets for emerging technologies. In encouraging effective energy management in the Federal Government, this order builds on work begun under EPACT and previous Executive orders.
Part 2—Goals
Sec. 201. Greenhouse Gases Reduction Goal. Through life-cycle cost-effective energy measures, each agency shall reduce its greenhouse gas emissions attributed to facility energy use by 30 percent by 2010 compared to such emissions levels in 1990. In order to encourage optimal investment in energy improvements, agencies can count greenhouse gas reductions from improvements in nonfacility energy use toward this goal to the extent that these reductions are approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB).
Sec. 202. Energy Efficiency Improvement Goals. Through life-cycle cost-effective measures, each agency shall reduce energy consumption per gross square foot of its facilities, excluding facilities covered in section 203 of this order, by 30 percent by 2005 and 35 percent by 2010 relative to 1985. No facilities will be exempt from these goals unless they meet new criteria for exemptions, to be issued by the Department of Energy (DOE).
Sec. 203. Industrial and Laboratory Facilities. Through life-cycle cost-effective measures, each agency shall reduce energy consumption per square foot, per unit of production, or per other unit as applicable by 20 percent by 2005 and 25 percent by 2010 relative to 1990. No facilities will be exempt from these goals unless they meet new criteria for exemptions, as issued by DOE.
Sec. 204. Renewable Energy. Each agency shall strive to expand the use of renewable energy within its facilities and in its activities by implementing renewable energy projects and by purchasing electricity from renewable energy sources. In support of the Million Solar Roofs initiative, the Federal Government shall strive to install 2,000 solar energy systems at Federal facilities by the end of 2000, and 20,000 solar energy systems at Federal facilities by 2010.
Sec. 205. Petroleum. Through life-cycle cost-effective measures, each agency shall reduce the use of petroleum within its facilities. Agencies may accomplish this reduction by switching to a less greenhouse gas-intensive, nonpetroleum energy source, such as natural gas or renewable energy sources; by eliminating unnecessary fuel use; or by other appropriate methods. Where alternative fuels are not practical or life-cycle cost-effective, agencies shall strive to improve the efficiency of their facilities.
Sec. 206. Source Energy. The Federal Government shall strive to reduce total energy use and associated greenhouse gas and other air emissions, as measured at the source. To that end, agencies shall undertake life-cycle cost-effective projects in which source energy decreases, even if site energy use increases. In such cases, agencies will receive credit toward energy reduction goals through guidelines developed by DOE.
Sec. 207. Water Conservation. Through life-cycle cost-effective measures, agencies shall reduce water consumption and associated energy use in their facilities to reach the goals set under section 503(f) of this order. Where possible, water cost savings and associated energy cost savings shall be included in Energy-Savings Performance Contracts and other financing mechanisms.
Part 3—Organization and Accountability
Sec. 301. Annual Budget Submission. Each agency's budget submission to OMB shall specifically request funding necessary to achieve the goals of this order. Budget submissions shall include the costs associated with: encouraging the use of, administering, and fulfilling agency responsibilities under Energy-Savings Performance Contracts, utility energy-efficiency service contracts, and other contractual platforms for achieving conservation goals; implementing life-cycle cost-effective measures; procuring life-cycle cost-effective products; and constructing sustainably designed new buildings, among other energy costs. OMB shall issue guidelines to assist agencies in developing appropriate requests that support sound investments in energy improvements and energy-using products. OMB shall explore the feasibility of establishing a fund that agencies could draw on to finance exemplary energy management activities and investments with higher initial costs but lower life-cycle costs. Budget requests to OMB is support of this order must be within each agency's planning guidance level.
Sec. 302. Annual Implementation Plan. Each agency shall develop an annual implementation plan for fulfilling the requirements of this order. Such plans shall be included in the annual reports to the President under section 303 of this order.
Sec. 303. Annual Reports to the President. (a) Each agency shall measure and report its progress in meeting the goals and requirements of this order on an annual basis. Agencies shall follow reporting guidelines as developed under section 306(b) of this order. In order to minimize additional reporting requirements, the guidelines will clarify how the annual report to the President should build on each agency's annual Federal energy reports submitted to DOE and the Congress. Annual reports to the President are due on January 1 of each year beginning in the year 2000.
(b) Each agency's annual report to the President shall describe how the agency is using each of the strategies described in Part 4 of this order to help meet energy and greenhouse gas reduction goals. The annual report to the President shall explain why certain strategies, if any, have not been used. It shall also include a listing and explanation of exempt facilities.
Sec. 304. Designation of Senior Agency Official. Each agency shall designate a senior official, at the Assistant Secretary level or above, to be responsible for meeting the goals and requirements of this order, including preparing the annual report to the President. Such designation shall be reported by each Cabinet Secretary or agency head to the Deputy Director for Management of OMB within 30 days of the date of this order. Designated officials shall participate in the Interagency Energy Policy Committee, described in section 306(d) of this order. The Committee shall communicate its activities to all designated officials to assure proper coordination and achievement of the goals and requirements of this order.
Sec. 305. Designation of Agency Energy Teams. Within 90 days of the date of this order, each agency shall form a technical support team consisting of appropriate procurement, legal, budget, management, and technical representatives to expedite and encourage the agency's use of appropriations, Energy-Savings Performance Contracts, and other alternative financing mechanisms necessary to meet the goals and requirements of this order. Agency energy team activities shall be undertaken in collaboration with each agency's representative to the Interagency Energy Management Task Force, as described in section 306(e) of this order.
Sec. 306. Interagency Coordination. (a) Office of Management and Budget. The Deputy Director for Management of OMB, in consultation with DOE, shall be responsible for evaluating each agency's progress in improving energy management and for submitting agency energy scorecards to the President to report progress.
(1) OMB, in consultation with DOE and other agencies, shall develop the agency energy scorecards and scoring system to evaluate each agency's progress in meeting the goals of this order. The scoring criteria shall include the extent to which agencies are taking advantage of key tools to save energy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, such as Energy-Savings Performance Contracts, utility energy-efficiency service contracts, ENERGY STAR® and other energy efficient products, renewable energy technologies, electricity from renewable energy sources, and other strategies and requirements listed in Part 4 of this order, as well as overall efficiency and greenhouse gas metrics and use of other innovative energy efficiency practices. The scorecards shall be based on the annual energy reports submitted to the President under section 303 of this order.
(2) The Deputy Director for Management of OMB shall also select outstanding agency energy management team(s), from among candidates nominated by DOE, for a new annual Presidential award for energy efficiency.
(b) Federal Energy Management Program. The DOE's Federal Energy Management Program (FEMP) shall be responsible for working with the agencies to ensure that they meet the goals of this order and report their progress. FEMP, in consultation with OMB, shall develop and issue guidelines for agencies' preparation of their annual reports to the President on energy management, as required in section 303 of this order. FEMP shall also have primary responsibility for collecting and analyzing the data, and shall assist OMB in ensuring that agency reports are received in a timely manner.
(c) President's Management Council. The President's Management Council (PMC), chaired by the Deputy Director for Management of OMB and consisting of the Chief Operating Officers (usually the Deputy Secretary) of the largest Federal departments and agencies, will periodically discuss agencies' progress in improving Federal energy management.
(d) Interagency Energy Policy Committee. This Committee was established by the Department of Energy Organization Act. It consists of senior agency officials designated in accordance with section 304 of this order. The Committee is responsible for encouraging implementation of energy efficiency policies and practices. The major energy-consuming agencies designated by DOE are required to participate in the Committee. The Committee shall communicate its activities to all designated senior agency officials to promote coordination and achievement of the goals of this order.
(e) Interagency Energy Management Task Force. The Task Force was established by the National Energy Conservation Policy Act. It consists of each agency's chief energy manager. The Committee shall continue to work toward improving agencies' use of energy management tools and sharing information on Federal energy management across agencies.
Sec. 307. Public/Private Advisory Committee. The Secretary of Energy will appoint an advisory committee consisting of representatives from Federal agencies, State governments, energy service companies, utility companies, equipment manufacturers, construction and architectural companies, environmental, energy and consumer groups, and other energy-related organizations. The committee will provide input on Federal energy management, including how to improve use of Energy-Savings Performance Contracts and utility energy-efficiency service contracts, improve procurement of ENERGY STAR® and other energy efficient products, improve building design, reduce process energy use, and enhance applications of efficient and renewable energy technologies at Federal facilities.
Sec. 308. Applicability. This order applies to all Federal departments and agencies. General Services Administration (GSA) is responsible for working with agencies to meet the requirements of this order for those facilities for which GSA has delegated operations and maintenance authority. The Department of Defense (DOD) is subject to this order to the extent that it does not impair or adversely affect military operations and training (including tactical aircraft, ships, weapons systems, combat training, and border security). Part 4—Promoting Federal Leadership in Energy Management
Sec. 401. Life-Cycle Cost Analysis. Agencies shall use life-cycle cost analysis in making decisions about their investments in products, services, construction, and other projects to lower the Federal Government's costs and to reduce energy and water consumption. Where appropriate, agencies shall consider the life-cycle costs of combinations of projects, particularly to encourage bundling of energy efficiency projects with renewable energy projects. Agencies shall also retire inefficient equipment on an accelerated basis where replacement results in lower life-cycle costs. Agencies that minimize life- cycle costs with efficiency measures will be recognized in their scorecard evaluations.
Sec. 402. Facility Energy Audits. Agencies shall continue to conduct energy and water audits for approximately 10 percent of their facilities each year, either independently or through Energy-Savings Performance Contracts or utility energy-efficiency service contracts.
Sec. 403. Emergency Management Strategies and Tools. Agencies shall use a variety of energy management strategies and tools, where life-cycle cost-effective, to meet the goals of this order. An agency's use of these strategies and tools shall be taken into account in assessing the agency's progress and formulating its score card.
(a) Financing Mechanisms. Agencies shall maximize their use of available alternative financing contracting mechanisms, including Energy-Saving Performance Contracts and utility energy-efficiency service contracts, when life-cycle cost-effective, to reduce energy use and cost in their facilities and operations. Energy-Savings Performance Contracts, which are authorized under the National Energy Conservation Policy Act, as modified by the Energy Policy Act of 1992, and utility energy-efficiency service contracts provide significant opportunities for making Federal facilities more energy efficient at no net cost to taxpayers.
(b) ENERGY STAR® and Other Energy Efficient Products.
(1) Agencies shall select, where life-cycle cost-effective, ENERGY STAR® and other energy efficient products when acquiring energy-using products. For product groups where ENERGY STAR® labels are not yet available, agencies shall select products that are in the upper 25 percent of energy efficiency as designated by FEMP. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and DOE shall expedite the process of designating products as ENERGY STAR® and will merge their current efficiency rating procedures.
(2) GSA and the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), with assistance from EPA and DOE, shall create clear catalogue listings that designate these products in both print and electronic formats. In addition, GSA and DLA shall undertake pilot products from selected energy-using products to show a "second price tag", which means an accounting of the operating and purchase costs of the item, in both printed and electronic catalogues and assess the impact of providing this information on Federal purchasing decisions.
(3) Agencies shall incorporate energy efficient criteria consistent with ENERGY STAR® and other FEMP-designated energy efficiency levels into all guide specifications and project specifications developed for new construction and renovation, as well as into product specification language developed for Basic Ordering Agreements, Blanket Purchasing Agreements, Government Wide Acquisition Contracts, and all other purchasing procedures.
(4) DOE and OMB shall also explore the creation of financing agreements with private sector suppliers to provide private funding to offset higher up-front costs of efficient products. Within 9 months of the date of this order, DOE shall report back to the President's Management Council on the viability of such alternative financing options.
(c) ENERGY STAR® Buildings. Agencies shall strive to meet the ENERGY STAR® Building criteria for energy performance and indoor environmental quality in their eligible facilities to the maximum extent practicable by the end of 2002. Agencies may use Energy-Savings Performance Contracts, utility energy-efficiency service contracts, or other means to conduct evaluations and make improvements to buildings in order to meet the criteria. Buildings that rank in the top 25 percent in energy efficiency relative to comparable commercial and Federal buildings will receive the ENERGY STAR® building label. Agencies shall integrate this building rating tool into their general facility audits.
(d) Sustainable Building Design. DOD and GSA, in consultation with DOE and EPA, shall develop sustainable design principles. Agencies shall apply such principles to the siting, design, and construction of new facilities. Agencies shall optimize life-cycle costs, pollution, and other environmental and energy costs associated with the construction, life-cycle operation, and decommissioning of the facility. Agencies shall consider using Energy-Savings Performance Contracts or utility energy-efficiency service contracts to aid them in constructing sustainably designed buildings.
(e) Model Lease Provisions. Agencies entering into leases, including the renegotiation or extension of existing leases, shall incorporate lease provisions that encourage energy and water efficiency wherever life-cycle cost-effective. Build-to-suit lease solicitations shall contain criteria encouraging sustainable design and development, energy efficiency, and verification of building performance. Agencies shall include a preference for buildings having the ENERGY STAR® building label in their selection criteria for acquiring leased buildings. In addition, all agencies shall encourage lessors to apply for the ENERGY STAR® building label and to explore and implement projects that would reduce costs to the Federal Government, including projects carried out through the lessors' Energy-Savings Performance Contracts or utility energy-efficiency service contracts.
(f) Industrial Facility Efficiency Improvements. Agencies shall explore efficiency opportunities in industrial facilities for steam systems, boiler operation, air compressor systems, industrial processes, and fuel switching, including cogeneration and other efficiency and renewable energy technologies.
(g) Highly Efficient Systems. Agencies shall implement district energy systems, and other highly efficient systems, in new construction or retrofit projects when life-cycle cost-effective. Agencies shall consider combined cooling, heat, and power when upgrading and assessing facility power needs and shall use combined cooling, heat, and power systems when life-cycle cost-effective. Agencies shall survey local natural resources to optimize use of available biomass, bioenergy, geothermal, or other naturally occurring energy sources.
(h) Off-Grid Generation. Agencies shall use off-grid generation systems, including solar hot water, solar electric, solar outdoor lighting, small wind turbines, fuel cells, and other off-grid alternatives, where such systems are life-cycle cost-effective and offer benefits including energy efficiency, pollution prevention, source energy reductions, avoided infrastructure costs, or expedited service.
Sec. 404. Electricity Use. To advance the greenhouse gas and renewable energy goals of this order, and reduce source energy use, each agency shall strive to use electricity from clean, efficient, and renewable energy sources. An agency's efforts in purchasing electricity from efficient and renewable energy sources shall be taken into account in assessing the agency's progress and formulating its score card.
(a) Competitive Power. Agencies shall take advantage of competitive opportunities in the electricity and natural gas markets to reduce costs and enhance services. Agencies are encouraged to aggregate demand across facilities or agencies to maximize their economic advantage.
(b) Reduced Greenhouse Gas Intensity of Electric Power. When selecting electricity providers, agencies shall purchase electricity from sources that use high efficiency electric generating technologies when life-cycle cost-effective. Agencies shall consider the greenhouse gas intensity of the source of the electricity and strive to minimize the greenhouse gas intensity of purchased electricity.
(c) Purchasing Electricity from Renewable Energy Sources.
(1) Each agency shall evaluate its current use of electricity from renewable energy sources and report this level in its annual report to the President. Based on this review, each agency should adopt policies and pursue projects that increase the use of such electricity. Agencies should include provisions for the purchase of electricity from renewable energy sources as a component of their requests for bids whenever procuring electricity. Agencies may use savings from energy efficiency projects to pay additional incremental costs of electricity from renewable energy sources:
(2) In evaluating opportunities to comply with this section, agencies should consider: my Administration's goal of tripling nonhydroelectric renewable energy capacity in the United States by 2010; the renewable portfolio standard specified in the restructuring guidelines for the State in which the facility is located; GSA's efforts to make electricity from renewable energy sources available to Federal electricity purchasers; and EPA's guidelines on crediting renewable energy power in implementation in Clean Air Act standards.
Sec. 405. Mobile Equipment. Each agency shall seek to improve the design, construction, and operation of its mobile equipment, and shall implement all life-cycle cost-effective energy efficiency measures that result in cost savings while improving mission performance. To the extent that such measures are life-cycle cost-effective, agencies shall consider enhanced use of alternative or renewable-based fuels.
Sec. 406. Management and Government Performance. Agencies shall use the following management strategies in meeting the goals of this order.
(a) Awards. Agencies shall use employee incentive programs to reward exceptional performance in implementing this order.
(b) Performance Evaluations. Agencies shall include successful implementation of provisions of this order in areas such as Energy-Savings Performance Contracts, sustainable design, energy efficient procurement, energy efficiency, water conservation, and renewable energy projects in the position descriptions and performance evaluations of agency heads, members of the agency energy team, principal program managers, heads of field offices, facility managers, energy managers, and other appropriate employees.
(c) Retention of Savings and Rebates. Agencies granted statutory authority to retain a portion of savings generated from efficient energy and water management are encouraged to permit the retention of the savings at the facility or site where the savings occur to provide greater incentive for that facility and its site managers to undertake more energy management initiatives, invest in renewable energy systems, and purchase electricity from renewable energy sources.
(d) Training and Education. Agencies shall ensure that all appropriate personnel receive training for implementing this order.
(1) DOE, DOD, and GSA shall provide relevant training or training materials for those programs that they make available to all Federal agencies relating to the energy management strategies contained in this order.
(2) The Federal Acquisition Institute and the Defense Acquisition University shall incorporate into existing procurement courses information on Federal energy management tools, including Energy Savings Performance Contracts, utility energy-efficiency service contracts, ENERGY STAR® and other energy efficient products, and life-cycle cost analysis.
(3) All agencies are encouraged to develop outreach programs that include education, training, and promotion of ENERGY STAR® and other energy-efficient products for Federal purchase card users. These programs may include promotions with billing statements, user training, catalogue awareness, and exploration of vendor data collection of purchases.
(e) Showcase Facilities. Agencies shall designate exemplary new and existing facilities with significant public access and exposure as showcase facilities to highlight energy or water efficiency and renewable energy improvements.
Part 5—Technical Assistance
Sec. 501. Within 120 days of this order, the Director of OMB shall:
(a) develop and issue guidance to agency budget officers on preparation of annual funding requests associated with the implementation of the order for the FY 2001 budget;
(b) in collaboration with the Secretary of Energy, explain to agencies how to retain savings and reinvest in other energy and water management projects; and
(c) in collaboration with the Secretary of Energy through the Office of Federal Procurement Policy, periodically brief agency procurement executives on the use of Federal energy management tools, including Energy-Savings Performance Contracts, utility energy-efficiency service contracts, and procurement of energy efficient products and electricity from renewable energy sources.
Sec. 502. Within 180 days of this order, the Secretary of Energy, in collaboration with other agency heads, shall:
(a) issue guidelines to assist agencies in measuring energy per square foot, per unit of production, or other applicable unit in industrial, laboratory, research, and other energy-intensive facilities;
(b) establish criteria for determining which facilities are exempt from the order. In addition, DOE must provide guidance for agencies to report proposed exemptions;
(c) develop guidance to assist agencies in calculating appropriate energy baselines for previously exempt facilities and facilities occupied after 1990 in order to measure progress toward goals;
(d) issue guidance to clarify how agencies determine the life-cycle cost for investments required by the order, including how to compare different energy and fuel options and assess the current tools;
(e) issue guidance for providing credit toward energy efficiency goals for cost-effective projects where source energy use declines but site energy use increases; and (f) provide guidance to assist each agency to determine a baseline of water consumption.
Sec. 503. Within 1 year of this order, the Secretary of Energy, in collaboration with other agency heads, shall:
(a) provide guidance for counting renewable and highly efficient energy projects and purchases of electricity from renewable and highly efficient energy sources toward agencies' progress in reaching greenhouse gas and energy reduction goals;
(b) develop goals for the amount of energy generated at Federal facilities from renewable energy technologies;
(c) support efforts to develop standards for the certification of low environmental impact hydropower facilities in order to facilitate the Federal purchase of such power;
(d) work with GSA and DLA to develop a plan for purchasing advanced energy products in bulk quantities for use in by multiple agencies;
(e) issue guidelines for agency use estimating the greenhouse gas emissions attributable to facility energy use. These guidelines shall include emissions associated with the production, transportation and use of energy consumed in Federal facilities; and
(f) establish water conservation goals for Federal agencies.
Sec. 504. Within 120 days of this order, the Secretary of Defense and the Administrator of GSA, in consultation with other agency heads, shall develop and issue sustainable design and development principles for the siting, design, and construction of new facilities.
Sec. 505. Within 180 days of this order, the Administrator of GSA, in collaboration with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Energy, and other agency heads, shall:
(a) develop and issue guidance to assist agencies in ensuring that all project cost estimates, bids, and agency budget requests for design, construction, and renovation of facilities are based on life-cycle costs. Incentives for contractors involved in facility design and construction must be structured to encourage the contractors to design and build at the lowest life-cycle costs;
(b) make information available on opportunities to purchase electricity from renewable energy sources as defined by this order. This information should accommodate relevant State regulations and be updated periodically based on technological advances and market changes, at least every 2 years;
(c) develop Internet-based tools for both GSA and DLA customers to assist individual and agency purchasers in identifying and purchasing ENERGY STAR® and other energy efficient products for acquisition; and
(d) develop model lease provisions that incorporate energy efficiency and sustainable design.
Part 6—General Provisions
Sec. 601. Compliance by Independent Agencies. Independent agencies are encouraged to comply with the provisions of this order.
Sec. 602. Waivers. If an agency determines that a provision in this order is inconsistent with its mission, the agency may ask DOE for a waiver of the provision. DOE will include a list of any waivers it grants in its Federal Energy Management Programs annual report to the Congress.
Sec. 603. Scope. (a) This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to create any right, benefit, or trust responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable by law by a party against the United States, its agencies, its officers, or any other person.
(b) This order applies to agency facilities in any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands, and any other territory or possession over which the United States has jurisdiction. Agencies with facilities outside of these areas, however, are encouraged to make best efforts to comply with the goals of this order for those facilities. In addition, agencies can report energy improvements made outside the United States in their annual report to the President; these improvements may be considered in agency scorecard evaluations.
Sec. 604. Revocations. Executive Order 12902 of March 9, 1994, Executive Order 12759 of April 17, 1991, and Executive Order 12845 of April 21, 1993, are revoked.
Sec. 605. Amendments to Federal Regulations. The Federal Acquisition Regulation and other Federal regulations shall be amended to reflect changes made by this order, including an amendment to facilitate agency purchases of electricity from renewable energy sources.
Part 7—Definitions
For the purposes of this order:
Sec. 701. "Acquisition" means acquiring by contract supplies or services (including construction) by and for the use of the Federal Government through purchase or lease, whether the supplies or services are already in existence or must be created, developed, demonstrated, and evaluated. Acquisition begins at the point when agency needs are established and includes the description of requirements to satisfy agency needs, solicitation and selection of sources, award of contracts, contract financing, contract performance, contract administration, and those technical and management functions directly related to the process of fulfilling agency needs by contract.
Sec. 702. "Agency" means an Executive agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105. For the purpose of this order, military departments, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 102, are covered under the auspices of DOD.
Sec. 703. "Energy-Savings Performance Contract" means a contract that provides for the performance of services for the design, acquisition, financing, installation, testing, operation, and where appropriate, maintenance and repair, of an identified energy or water conservation measure or series of measures at one or more locations. Such contracts shall provide that the contractor must incur costs of implementing energy savings measures, including at least the cost (if any) incurred in making energy audits, acquiring and installing equipment, and training personnel in exchange for a predetermined share of the value of the energy savings directly resulting from implementation of such measures during the term of the contract. Payment to the contractor is contingent upon realizing a guaranteed stream of future energy and cost savings. All additional savings will accrue to the Federal Government.
Sec. 704. "Exempt facility" or "Exempt mobile equipment" means a facility or a piece of mobile equipment for which an agency uses DOE-established criteria to determine that compliance with the Energy Policy Act of 1992 or this order is not practical.
Sec. 705. "Facility" means any individual building or collection of buildings, grounds, or structure, as well as any fixture or part thereof, including the associated energy or water-consuming support systems, which is constructed, renovated, or purchased in whole or in part for use by the Federal Government. It includes leased facilities where the Federal Government has a purchase option or facilities planned for purchase. In any provision of this order, the term "facility" also includes any building 100 percent leased for use by the Federal Government where the Federal Government pays directly or indirectly for the utility costs associated with its leased space. The term also includes Government-owned contractor-operated facilities.
Sec. 706. "Industrial facility" means any fixed equipment, building, or complex for production, manufacturing, or other processes that uses large amounts of capital equipment in connection with, or as part of, any process or system, and within which the majority of energy use is not devoted to the heating, cooling, lighting, ventilation, or to service the water heating energy load requirements of the facility.
Sec. 707. "Life-cycle costs" means the sum of the present values of investment costs, capital costs, installation costs, energy costs, operating costs, maintenance costs, and disposal costs, over the lifetime of the project, product, or measure. Additional guidance on measuring life-cycle costs is specified in 10 C.F.R. 436.19.
Sec. 708. "Life-cycle cost-effective" means the life-cycle costs of a product, project, or measure are estimated to be equal to or less than the base case (i.e., current or standard practice or product). Additional guidance on measuring cost-effectiveness is specified in 10 C.F.R. 436.18 (a), (b), and (c), 436.20, and 436.21.
Sec. 709. "Mobile equipment" means all Federally owned ships, aircraft, and nonroad vehicles.
Sec. 710. "Renewable energy" means energy produced by solar, wind, geothermal, and biomass power.
Sec. 711. "Renewable energy technology" means technologies that use renewable energy to provide light, heat, cooling, or mechanical or electrical energy for use in facilities or other activities. The term also means the use of integrated whole-building designs that rely upon renewable energy resources, including passive solar design.
Sec. 712. "Source energy" means the energy that is used at a site and consumed in producing and in delivering energy to a site, including, but not limited to, power generation, transmission, and distribution losses, and that is used to perform a specific function, such as space conditioning, lighting, or water heating.
Sec. 713. "Utility" means public agencies and privately owned companies that market, generate, and/or distribute energy or water, including electricity, natural gas, manufactured gas, steam, hot water, and chilled water as commodities for public use and that provide the service under Federal, State, or local regulated authority to all authorized customers. Utilities include: Federally owned non-profit producers; municipal organizations; and investor or privately owned producers regulated by a state and/or the Federal Government; cooperatives owned by members and providing services mostly to their members; and other nonprofit State and local government agencies serving in this capacity.
Sec. 714. "Utility energy-efficiency service" means demand side management services provided by a utility to improve the efficiency of use of the commodity (electricity, gas, etc.) being distributed. Services can include, but are not limited to, energy efficiency and renewable energy project auditing, financing, design, installation, operation, maintenance, and monitoring.
William J. Clinton
The White House,
June 3, 1999.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., June 7, 1999]