By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Nearly 350 years have passed since the first Jewish settlers arrived in America. The sons and daughters of a proud and ancient heritage, they brought to this new land gifts that have enriched our national life tremendously: a deep faith in God, a strong sense of morality, a devotion to family and community, a thirst for freedom, a reverence for justice, and a long tradition of philanthropy.
Millions of Jews have shared the American immigrant experience. Many came here fleeing poverty and persecution, yearning for religious or political freedom, seeking a better life for themselves and their families. Investing their dreams, ambitions, labor, and love in our country, Jewish immigrants overcame great obstacles to rise as far as their talents and effort could take them. Today their descendants continue to make extraordinary contributions to the cultural, economic, religious, and intellectual life of our Nation. In education, the arts, politics, the law, science, entertainment, technology, philanthropy, industry, and every other field of endeavor, Jewish men and women have excelled in their pursuits and strengthened America with their character and accomplishments.
As we look forward to a new century and a new millennium, let us give thanks for all that the Jewish community in America has done to keep our Nation free, strong, and prosperous. Let us celebrate the freedom of religion guaranteed by our founders in the Bill of Rights, which has done so much to attract men and women of conscience to this land. Let us recognize that our country's great diversity of races, religions, ethnicities, and cultures will prove to be among our greatest strengths in the global community of tomorrow. And let us reaffirm our sacred obligation to build a future based upon a spirit of tolerance, respect, and understanding.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 18 through April 25, 1999, as Jewish Heritage Week. I urge all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-third.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON