By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Our Nation was founded at a time of extraordinary change, as the world began to move from an agrarian to an industrial economy. Today, as we approach the 21st century, exciting innovations in science and technology are revolutionizing our society, and once again Americans must adapt to the demands of a new era. Beckoning us with exciting new challenges and far-reaching opportunities, our future depends as never before on our Nation's commitment to excellence in education.
Americans have met the dynamic changes in our society not only through education but also by finding strength in our shared goals and values. And, as we prepare for the challenges of a new millennium, these time-honored principles must remain an important part of our children's education. Far more than the accumulation of facts and figures, a well-rounded education that will serve our children throughout their lives must also include the wisdom and insights of past generations. Family members, teachers, administrators, and neighbors should share their experiences and ideals with young people to help them develop into mature, confident, and responsible adults.
An esteemed scholar and inspired religious leader, Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson, the Lubavitcher Rebbe, devoted his life to empowering young people through education. His belief in the importance of intellectual and spiritual enlightenment led him to establish more than 2,000 educational and social institutions around the world. Promoting faith, family, and community, his work enriched our society and helped to lay the foundation for our continued progress.
On this day and throughout the year, let us rededicate ourselves to the ideals of education and sharing that were championed by Rabbi Schneerson and are embraced by compassionate leaders across our country. As our society continues to change and evolve, let us work with keen minds and warm hearts to forge a future of peace and prosperity for all our children.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March 28, 1999, as Education and Sharing Day, U.S.A. I invite Government officials, educators, volunteers, and all of the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate activities, programs, and ceremonies.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-third.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON