By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to promote an increase in the opportunities for individuals with disabilities to be employed at all levels and occupations of the Federal Government, and to support the goals articulated in section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791), it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Increasing the Federal Employment Opportunities for Individuals with Disabilities. (a) Recent evidence demonstrates that, throughout the United States, qualified persons with disabilities have been refused employment despite their availability and qualifications, and many qualified persons with disabilities are never made aware of available employment opportunities. Evidence also suggests that increased efforts at outreach, and increased understanding of the reasonable accommodations available for persons with disabilities, will permit persons with disabilities to compete for employment on a more level playing field.
(b) Based on current hiring patterns and anticipated increases from expanded outreach efforts and appropriate accommodations, the Federal Government, over the next 5 years, will be able to hire 100,000 qualified individuals with disabilities. In furtherance of such efforts, Federal agencies shall:
(1) Use available hiring authorities, consistent with statutes, regulations, and prior Executive orders and Presidential Memoranda;
(2) Expand their outreach efforts, using both traditional and nontraditional methods; and
(3) Increase their efforts to accommodate individuals with disabilities.
(c) As a model employer, the Federal Government will take the lead in educating the public about employment opportunities available for individuals with disabilities.
(d) This order does not require agencies to create new positions or to change existing qualification standards for any position.
Sec. 2. Implementation. Each Federal agency shall prepare a plan to increase the opportunities for individuals with disabilities to be employed in the agency. Each agency shall submit that plan to the Office of Personnel Management within 60 days from the date of this order.
Sec. 3. Authority to Develop Guidance. The Office of Personnel Management shall develop guidance on the provisions of this order to increase the opportunities for individuals with disabilities employed in the Federal Government.
Sec. 4. Judicial Review. This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against the United States, its agencies, its officers, its employees, or any person.
William J. Clinton
The White House,
July 26, 2000