By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), and in order to establish the White House Commission on Complementary and Alternative Medicine Policy, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment. There is established in the Department of Health and Human Services (Department) the White House Commission on Complementary and Alternative Medicine Policy (Commission). The Commission shall be composed of not more than 15 members appointed by the President from knowledgeable representatives in health care practice and complementary and alternative medicine. The President shall designate a Chair from among the members of the Commission. The Secretary of Health and Human Services (Secretary) shall appoint an Executive Director for the Commission.
Sec. 2. Functions. The Commission shall provide a report, through the Secretary, to the President on legislative and administrative recommendations for assuring that public policy maximizes the benefits to Americans of complementary and alternative medicine. The recommendations shall address the following:
 (a)
 the education and training of health care practitioners in complementary and alternative medicine;
 (b)
 coordinated research to increase knowledge about complementary and alternative medicine practices and products;
 (c)
 the provision to health care professionals of reliable and useful information about complementary and alternative medicine that can be made readily accessible and understandable to the general public; and
(d) guidance for appropriate access to and delivery of complementary
and alternative medicine. Sec. 3. Administration. (a) To the extent permitted by law, the heads of executive departments and agencies shall provide the Commission, upon request, with such information and assistance as it may require for the purpose of carrying out its functions.
 (b)
 Each member of the Commission shall receive compensation at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the annual rate specified for Level 1V of the Executive Schedule (5 U.S.C. 5315) for each day during which the member is engaged in the performance of the duties of the Commission. While away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of the duties of the Commission, members shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in Government service (5 U.S.C. 5701–5707).
 (c)
 The Department shall provide the Commission with funding and with administrative services, facilities, staff, and other support services necessary for the performance of the Commission’s functions.
 (d)
 In accordance with guidelines issued by the Administrator of General Services, the Secretary shall perform the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), with respect to the Commission, except that of reporting to the Congress.
(e) The Commission shall terminate 2 years from the date of this order unless extended by the President prior to such date.
William J. Clinton
THE WHITE HOUSE,
March 7, 2000.