A dispute exists between the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority, and its conductors represented by the United Transportation Union.
The dispute has not heretofore been adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended, 45 U.S.C. 151–188 (the "Act").
A party empowered by the Act has requested that the President establish an emergency board pursuant to section 9A of the Act (45 U.S.C. 159a).
Section 9A(c) of the Act provides that the President, upon such request, shall appoint an emergency board to investigate and report on the dispute.
Now, Therefore, by the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, including section 9A of the Act, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment of Emergency Board ("Board"). There is established, effective April 12, 2004, a Board of three members to be appointed by the President to investigate and report on this dispute. No member shall be pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of railroad employees or any carrier. The Board shall perform its functions subject to the availability of funds.
Sec. 2. Report. The Board shall report to the President with respect to this dispute within 30 days of its creation.
Sec. 3. Maintaining Conditions. As provided by section 9A(c) of the Act, from the date of the creation of the Board and for 120 days thereafter, no change in the conditions out of which the dispute arose shall be made by the parties to the controversy, except by agreement of the parties.
Sec. 4. Records Maintenance. The records and files of the Board are records of the Office of the President and upon the Board's termination shall be maintained in the physical custody of the National Mediation Board.
Sec. 5. Expiration. The Board shall terminate upon the submission of the report provided for in section 2 of this order. GEORGE W. BUSH
The White House,
April 10, 2004.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 9:10 a.m., April 13, 2004]