By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America and in order to help ensure that the Federal Government supports and encourages volunteer community service, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Designation of a Liaison for Volunteer Community Service. (a) The head of each agency shall, within 20 days after the date of this order, designate an officer or employee of such agency compensated at a level at or above the minimum level of pay of a member of the Senior Executive Service to serve under the authority of the head of the agency as the agency liaison for volunteer community service (Liaison).
(b) The Liaison in each agency shall promote and support community service on a voluntary basis among Federal employees, including those approaching retirement; promote the use of skilled volunteers; and facilitate public recognition for volunteer community service.
(c) The head of each agency shall prescribe arrangements within the agency for support and supervision of the Liaison that ensure high priority and substantial visibility for the function of the Liaison within the agency under this order.
(d) Each executive agency shall provide its Liaison with appropriate administrative support and other resources to meet the responsibilities of the Liaison under this order.
Sec. 2. Goals and Responsibilities of the Liaison. The Liaison shall foster within the Liaison's agency a culture of taking responsibility, service to others, and good citizenship. Toward that end, the Liaison shall:
(a) identify, catalog, and review all activities of the agency that relate to volunteer community service, including, but not limited to rules, orders, grant programs, external relations, and other policies and practices, and make such recommendations to the head of the agency for adjustments as may be appropriate;
(b) actively work with USA Freedom Corps to promote volunteer community service among agency employees by providing information about community service opportunities;
(c) coordinate within the agency actions to facilitate public recognition for volunteer community service;
(d) promote, expand, and enhance skilled volunteer community service opportunities;
(e) work with the USA Freedom Corps and the Director of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to consider any appropriate changes in agency policies or practices that are not currently consistent with OPM guidance;
(f) coordinate the awarding of the President's Volunteer Service Award to recognize outstanding volunteer service by employees within the agency; and
(g) act as a liaison with the USA Freedom Corps.
Sec. 3. Administrative Provisions. (a) The USA Freedom Corps shall provide such information with respect to volunteer community service programs and activities and such advice and assistance as may be required by agencies in performing their functions under this order.
(b) Executive Order 12820 of November 5, 1992, is revoked.
(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(d) As used in this order:
(i) "agency" has the meaning of "executive agency" as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code; and
(ii)"USA Freedom Corps" means the Director of the USA Freedom Corps Office established by section 4 of Executive Order 13254 of January 29, 2002.
Sec. 4. Reporting Provisions. (a) Not later than 180 days from the date of this order and annually thereafter, each agency Liaison shall prepare and submit a report to the USA Freedom Corps that includes a description of the agency's activities in performing its functions under this order.
(b) A Liaison's first report under subsection (a) shall include annual performance indicators and measurable objectives for agency action approved by the head of the agency. Each report filed thereafter under subsection (a) shall measure the agency's performance against the indicators and objectives approved by the head of the agency.
Sec. 5. Judicial Review. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party at law or in equity against the United States, its departments, agencies, entities, officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
George W. Bush
The White House,
April 27, 2006.