By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to strengthen the efforts of the Department of Justice, in conjunction with Federal, State, tribal, territorial, and local agencies, to investigate and prosecute significant financial crimes and other violations relating to the current financial crisis and economic recovery efforts, recover the proceeds of such crimes and violations, and ensure just and effective punishment of those who perpetrate financial crimes and violations, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1.
 
Establishment. 
There is hereby established an interagency Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force (Task Force) led by the Department of Justice. 
Sec. 2.
 
Membership and Operation. 
The Task Force shall be chaired by the Attorney General and consist of senior-level officials from the following departments, agencies, and offices, selected by the heads of the respective departments, agencies, and offices in consultation with the Attorney General: 
(a) the Department of Justice; 
(b) the Department of the Treasury; 
(c) the Department of Commerce; 
(d) the Department of Labor; 
(e) the Department of Housing and Urban Development; 
(f) the Department of Education; 
(g) the Department of Homeland Security; 
(h) the Securities and Exchange Commission; 
(i) the Commodity Futures Trading Commission; 
(j) the Federal Trade Commission; 
(k) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; 
(l) the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System; 
(m) the Federal Housing Finance Agency; 
(n) the Office of Thrift Supervision; 
(o) the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; 
(p) the Small Business Administration; 
(q) the Federal Bureau of Investigation; 
(r) the Social Security Administration; 
(s) the Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigations; 
(t) the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network; 
(u) the United States Postal Inspection Service; 
(v) the United States Secret Service; 
(w) the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement; 
(x) relevant Offices of Inspectors General and related Federal entities, including without limitation the Office of the Inspector General for the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board, and the Office of the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program; and 
(y) such other executive branch departments, agencies, or offices as the President may, from time to time, designate or that the Attorney General may invite. 
The Attorney General shall convene and, through the Deputy Attorney General, direct the work of the Task Force in fulfilling all its functions under this order. The Attorney General shall convene the first meeting of the Task Force within 30 days of the date of this order and shall thereafter convene the Task Force at such times as he deems appropriate. At the direction of the Attorney General, the Task Force may establish subgroups consisting exclusively of Task Force members or their designees under this section, including but not limited to a Steering Committee chaired by the Deputy Attorney General, and subcommittees addressing enforcement efforts, training and information sharing, and victims' rights, as the Attorney General deems appropriate. 
Sec. 3.
 
Mission and Functions. 
Consistent with the authorities assigned to the Attorney General by law, and other applicable law, the Task Force shall: 
(a) provide advice to the Attorney General for the investigation and prosecution of cases of bank, mortgage, loan, and lending fraud; securities and commodities fraud; retirement plan fraud; mail and wire fraud; tax crimes; money laundering; False Claims Act violations; unfair competition; discrimination; and other financial crimes and violations (hereinafter financial crimes and violations), when such cases are determined by the Attorney General, for purposes of this order, to be significant; 
(b) make recommendations to the Attorney General, from time to time, for action to enhance cooperation among Federal, State, local, tribal, and territorial authorities responsible for the investigation and prosecution of significant financial crimes and violations; and 
(c) coordinate law enforcement operations with representatives of State, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement. 
Sec. 4.
 
Coordination with State, Local, Tribal, and Territorial Law Enforcement. 
Consistent with the objectives set out in this order, and to the extent permitted by law, the Attorney General is encouraged to invite the following representatives of State, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement to participate in the Task Force's subcommittee addressing enforcement efforts in the subcommittee's performance of the functions set forth in section 3(c) of this order relating to the coordination of Federal, State, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement operations involving financial crimes and violations: 
(a) the National Association of Attorneys General; 
(b) the National District Attorneys Association; and 
(c) such other representatives of State, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement as the Attorney General deems appropriate. 
Sec. 5.
 
Outreach. 
Consistent with the law enforcement objectives set out in this order, the Task Force, in accordance with applicable law, in addition to regular meetings, shall conduct outreach with representatives of financial institutions, corporate entities, nonprofit organizations, State, local, tribal, and territorial governments and agencies, and other interested persons to foster greater coordination and participation in the detection and prosecution of financial fraud and financial crimes, and in the enforcement of antitrust and antidiscrimination laws. 
Sec. 6.
 
Administration. 
The Department of Justice, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations, shall provide administrative support and funding for the Task Force. 
Sec. 7.
 General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: 
(i) authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof, or the status of that department or agency within the Federal Government; or 
(ii) functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. 
(b) This Task Force shall replace, and continue the work of, the Corporate Fraud Task Force created by Executive Order 13271 of July 9, 2002. Executive Order 13271 is hereby terminated pursuant to section 6 of that order. 
(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. 
(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. 
Sec. 8.
 
Termination. 
The Task Force shall terminate when directed by the President or, with the approval of the President, by the Attorney General. 
BARACK OBAMA 
The White House, 
November 17, 2009.