By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
In light of the firm commitment of the United States to the preservation of international peace and security and our obligations under the United Nations Charter to carry out the decisions of the United Nations Security Council imposed under Chapter VII, I have determined that it is in the interests of the United States to suspend the entry into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, of aliens who are subject to United Nations Security Council travel bans as of the date of this proclamation. I have further determined that the interests of the United States are served by suspending the entry into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, of aliens whose property and interests in property have been blocked by an Executive Order issued in whole or in part pursuant to the President's authority under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 
et seq
.). 
Now, Therefore, I, Barack Obama,
 by the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, as amended (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code hereby find that the unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of persons described in section 1 of this proclamation would be detrimental to the interests of the United States. I therefore hereby proclaim that: 
Section 1.
 The entry into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, of the following persons is hereby suspended: 
(a) Any alien who meets one or more of the specific criteria for the imposition of a travel ban provided for in a United Nations Security Council resolution referenced in Annex A to this proclamation. 
(b) Any alien who meets one or more of the specific criteria contained in an Executive Order referenced in Annex B to this proclamation. 
Sec. 2.
 Persons covered by section 1 of this proclamation shall be identified by the Secretary of State or the Secretary's designee, in his or her sole discretion, pursuant to such standards and procedures as the Secretary may establish. 
Sec. 3.
 The Secretary of State shall have responsibility for implementing this proclamation pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and Secretary of Homeland Security, may establish. 
Sec. 4.
 Section 1 of this proclamation shall not apply with respect to any person otherwise covered by section 1 where entry of the person into the United States would not be contrary to the interests of the United States, as determined by the Secretary of State. In exercising the functions and authorities in the previous sentence, the Secretary of State shall consult the Secretary of Homeland Security on matters related to admissibility or inadmissibility within the authority of the Secretary of Homeland Security. 
Sec. 5.
 Nothing in this proclamation shall be construed to require actions that would be inconsistent with the United States obligations under applicable international agreements. 
Sec. 6.
 This proclamation is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. 
Sec. 7.
 This proclamation is effective immediately and shall remain in effect until such time as the Secretary of State determines that it is no longer necessary and should be terminated, either in whole or in part. Any such termination shall become effective upon publication in the 
Federal Register
. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fourth day of July, in the year of our Lord two thousand eleven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-sixth.
BARACK OBAMA