By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to continue to strengthen the Nation's economy and ensure the competitiveness of the United States and to create jobs, opportunity, and prosperity for the American people by ensuring the availability of non-partisan advice to the President from participants in and experts on the economy, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1.
 There is hereby established within the Department of the Treasury the President's Council on Jobs and Competitiveness (PCJC). The PCJC shall consist of members appointed by the President from among distinguished citizens outside the Federal Government and shall include citizens chosen to serve as representatives of the various sectors of the economy to offer the diverse perspectives of the private sector, employers, and workers on how the Federal Government can best foster growth, competitiveness, innovation, and job creation. The members may also include citizens selected based on their expertise and experience to offer independent advice. The President shall designate a Chair from among the members. A Co-Chair of the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology who is not serving in the Federal Government and the Chair and Vice Chair of the President's Export Council shall serve as ex-officio members. The Treasury may provide the PCJC with a staff, as necessary. 
Sec. 2.
 The functions of the PCJC are advisory only. The PCJC shall meet regularly and shall: 
(a) solicit ideas from across the country about how to bolster the economy and the prosperity of the American people that can inform the decisionmaking of the President, and with respect to matters deemed appropriate by the President, provide information and recommendations to any executive department or agency (agency) with responsibilities related to the economy, growth, innovation, American competitiveness, or job creation; 
(b) report directly to the President on the design, implementation, and evaluation of policies to promote the growth of the American economy, enhance the skills and education of Americans, maintain a stable and sound financial and banking system, create stable jobs for American workers, and improve the long-term prosperity and competitiveness of the American people; and 
(c) provide analysis and information with respect to the operation, regulation, and healthy functioning of the economy and other factors that may contribute to the sustainable growth and competitiveness of American industry and the American labor force. As deemed appropriate by the President, this analysis and information shall be provided to the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the National Economic Council, or any agency with responsibilities related to the economy, growth, innovation, American competitiveness, or job creation. 
Sec. 3.
 
Administration of the PCJC. 
(a) All agencies and all offices within the Executive Office of the President shall cooperate with the PCJC and provide such information and assistance to the PCJC as the Chair of the PCJC may request, to the extent permitted by law. 
(b) The Department of the Treasury shall provide funding and administrative support for the PCJC to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations. 
(c) Members of the PCJC shall serve without compensation but may receive transportation expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707), consistent with the availability of funds. 
Sec. 4.
 
Termination. 
The PCJC shall terminate 2 years after the date of this order unless extended by the President. 
Sec. 5.
 
Revocation of Executive Order 13501. 
Executive Order 13501 of February 6, 2009 (Establishing the President's Economic Recovery Advisory Board), is hereby revoked. 
Sec. 6.
 
General Provisions. 
(a) Insofar as the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) (the "Act"), may apply to the PCJC, any functions of the President under the Act, except for those in section 6 of the Act, shall be performed by the Secretary of the Treasury in accordance with the guidelines that have been issued by the Administrator of General Services. 
(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: 
(i) authority granted by law to a department or agency, or the head thereof; or 
(ii) functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. 
(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. 
(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. 
BARACK OBAMA 
The White House, 
January 31, 2011.