By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015 (the "Act") (Public Law 114-125) and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby order as follows: 
Section 1
. 
Authorities and Functions under the Act
. (a) The functions of the President under section 2313A(b) of the Export Enhancement Act of 1988, as added by section 504 of the Act, are assigned to the Secretary of Commerce. In carrying out its functions, the State and Federal Export Promotion Coordination Working Group established by the Secretary of Commerce under this section shall also coordinate with local and municipal governments representing regionally diverse areas. 
(b) The functions of the President under section 909(d) of the Act are assigned to the Secretary of State, in consultation with other relevant Federal agencies. 
(c) The functions of the President under section 915(d) of the Act are assigned to the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the United States Trade Representative (U.S. Trade Representative). 
(d) The functions of the President under section 915(e) of the Act are assigned to the U.S. Trade Representative, in consultation with the Secretary of State. 
Sec. 2
. 
Engagement on Currency Exchange Rate and Economic Policies
. (a) Prior to undertaking an enhanced analysis of a country pursuant to section 701(a)(2)(A)(ii) of the Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall seek the views of the U.S. Trade Representative on changes in trade restrictions in that country. 
(b) In exercising the functions under section 701(b)(2)(A) of the Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall consult with the Secretary of State in making any determination that commencing enhanced bilateral engagement with a country would cause serious harm to the national security of the United States. 
(c) If the Secretary of the Treasury determines, pursuant to section 701(c)(1) of the Act, that a country has failed to adopt appropriate policies to correct the undervaluation and surpluses described in section 701(b)(1)(A) of the Act with respect to that country, the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the U.S. Trade Representative, the Secretary of State, and the Secretary of Commerce, shall make a recommendation to the President regarding which of the actions set forth in sections 701(c)(1)(A) through (D) of the Act the President should take, or whether the President should waive, pursuant to section 701(c)(2) of the Act, the requirement to take remedial action. 
Sec. 3
. 
General Provisions
. (a) In exercising authority delegated by or performing functions assigned in this order, the Secretaries of State, the Treasury, and Commerce and the U.S. Trade Representative and their delegees: 
(i) shall ensure that all actions taken by them are consistent with the President's constitutional authority to (A) conduct the foreign affairs of the United States, including the commencement, conduct, and termination of negotiations with foreign countries and international organizations; (B) withhold information the disclosure of which could impair the foreign relations, the national security, the deliberative processes of the Executive, or the performance of the Executive's constitutional duties; (C) recommend for congressional consideration such measures as the President may judge necessary or expedient; and (D) supervise the executive branch; and 
(ii) may redelegate authority delegated by this order and may further assign functions assigned by this order to officers of any other department or agency within the executive branch to the extent permitted by law, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and such redelegation or further assignment shall be published in the 
Federal Register
. 
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. 
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. 
BARACK OBAMA 
The White House, 
July 22, 2016.