 GENERAL RULES.
General Rule II: Strike out the word "five" in line 1 and insert in lieu thereof the word "six," and add at the end of the rule a new clause, as follows:
6. The classified internal-revenue service.
General Rule III, section 5: Insert after the word "may" in line 1 the words "in its discretion," and after the word "appointment" in line 2 the following: "or an applicant who has been guilty of a crime or of infamous or notoriously disgraceful conduct." As amended the section will read:
5. The Commission may, in its discretion, refuse to examine an applicant who would be physically unable to perform the duties of the place to which he desires appointment or an applicant who has been guilty of a crime or of infamous or notoriously disgraceful conduct. The reason for any such action shall be entered on the minutes of the Commission.
Section 9: In line 1 strike out the word "departmental," and after the word "service" in the same line and in line 2 the words "and the classified railway mail service."
General Rule V: In line 2 change the order of words and insert other words so as to make the phrase amended read as follows: "and postmasters and customs and internal-revenue officers and custodians of public buildings."
General Rule IV, section 2: Insert after the word "may" in line 1 the words "in its discretion."
 DEPARTMENTAL RULES.
Departmental Rule II: In section 1, line 2, after the word "such," insert the word "other" and strike out the words "supplementary and special." In section 2, line 2, strike out the words "supplementary and special" and insert in lieu thereof the word "other."
Departmental Rule IV: In section 1, after the semicolon following the word "age" in line 4, insert the following: "or for the position of messenger or assistant messenger who is not under 18 years of age, or for the position of page or messenger boy who is not under 14 nor over 18 years of age."
Departmental Rule V: In section 2, paragraph 6, line 1, after the word "postal," insert the words "internal-revenue."
Departmental Rule VI: In section 1, line 2, after the word "of," strike out the words "special and supplementary" and insert in lieu thereof the word "other." In section 4, line 7, after the words "clerk-copyist," insert the words "or the messenger and watchman." In section 5, line 3, after the word "printing," insert the words "or for page or messenger boy."
Departmental Rule VII: In section 3, at the beginning of line 2, before the word "register," insert the words "the messenger or the watchman." In the second paragraph of the same section, in line 2, after the word "assistant," insert the words "or page or messenger boy."
Departmental Rule VIII: In section 1 insert a clause, to be lettered (c), as follows:
(c) From a bureau of the Treasury Department in which business relating to the internal revenue is transacted to a classified internal-revenue district, and from such a district to such a bureau in the Treasury Department, upon requisition by the Secretary of the Treasury.
The remaining clauses of the section to be relettered (d) and (e), respectively. In section 2, line 2, strike out the letter "d" in parentheses and insert in lieu thereof the letter "e," and at the end of the section add the following proviso:
 Provided,
 That a person may be transferred from a place in one Department to a place requiring no higher examination in another Department without examination.
Departmental Rule IX: Strike out the whole of section 1 and insert in lieu thereof the following:
1. Until promotion regulations have been applied to a Department under the provisions of section 6 of General Rule III promotions therein may be made as follows:
(a) Any person appointed from the appropriate register to the position of messenger, assistant messenger, watchman, or other subordinate position below the positions of clerk and copyist may at any time after absolute appointment, if not barred by age limitations, be transferred to any other of said subordinate positions, but shall not be promoted to the position of clerk or copyist or to any place the duties of which are clerical:
 Provided
 , That printers' assistants in the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Treasury Department, shall only be eligible for transfer to the grade of operative in that Bureau.
Strike out sections 2, 3, and 5 and renumber section 4 as 2.
Approved, March 2, 1895.
GROVER CLEVELAND.