By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas,
 it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved January twenty-fourth, nineteen hundred and five, entitled, "An Act for the protection of wild animals and birds in the Wichita Forest Reserve", "That the President of the United States is hereby authorized to designate such areas in the Wichita Forest Reserve as should, in his opinion, be set aside for the protection of game animals and birds and be recognized as a breeding place therefor.
"Sec. 2. That when such areas have been designated as provided for in section one of this Act, hunting, trapping, killing, or capturing of game animals and birds upon the lands of the United States within the limits of said areas shall be unlawful, except under such regulations as may be prescribed from time to time, by the Secretary of Agriculture; and any person violating such regulations or the provisions of this Act shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, upon conviction in any United States court of competent jurisdiction, be fined in a sum not exceeding one thousand dollars or be imprisoned for a period not exceeding one year, or shall suffer both fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court.
"Sec. 3. That it is the purpose of this Act to protect from trespass the public lands of the United States and the game animals and birds which may be thereon, and not to interfere with the operation of the local game laws as affecting private, State, or Territorial lands";
And Whereas,
 for the purpose of giving this Act effect, it appears desirable that the entire Wichita Forest Reserve be declared a Game Preserve;
Now, Therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt,
 President of the United States, by virtue of the power in me vested by the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that the Wichita Forest Reserve, in the Territory of Oklahoma, is designated and set aside for the protection of game animals and birds, and shall be recognized as a breeding place therefor, and that the hunting, trapping, killing or capturing of game animals and birds upon the lands of the United States within the limits of said area is unlawful, except under such regulations as may be prescribed from time to time by the Secretary of Agriculture.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done
 at the city of Washington this 2d day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-ninth.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT.
By the President:
FRANCIS B. LOOMIS,
 Acting Secretary of State.