By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas,
 public education is the basis of citizenship and is of primary importance to the welfare of the Nation, and
Whereas,
 more than five million boys and girls in America are not availing themselves of our free school advantages and are lacking in that youthful schooling which is so essential to the making of an intelligent citizenship, and
Whereas,
 the experience of the war revealed vast elements of population that are illiterate, physically unfit, or unfamiliar with American ideals and traditions; and our future strength and security are much dependent on their education and commitment to American ideals;
Therefore, I, Warren G. Harding,
 President of the United States, do urge the Governors of the various States and Territories to set apart December 4th to 10th, inclusive, 1921, as American Education Week, during which
Citizens in every state are urged to give special and thoughtful attention to the needs and the aims of the public schools. It is particularly recommended that effort be addressed to a practical expression of community interest in public education. To that end organizations for civic advancement and social betterment are earnestly requested, when it can be made practicable, to provide programs which will inform the people concerning the vital needs in this direction^ instruct them regarding shortcomings and deficiencies in present facilities, and bring to their attention specific, constructive methods by which, in the respective communities, these deficiencies may be supplied. The subject of public education has always been very close to the American heart, and to the fact that it has been made a chief responsibility of local governmental units, we largely owe the wide diffusion of educational facilities. It is believed that a widespread and earnest effort at observance of Education Week would do much to emphasize this feeling of immediate responsibility. Therefore it is suggested that the pulpit, press, schools, and public gatherings be enlisted in behalf of this special effort.
In witness whereof
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this twenty-ninth day of November, in the year of our Lord, one thousand nine hundred twenty-one, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred forty-sixth.
WARREN G. HARDING
By the President:
CHARLES E. HUGHES, 
Secretary of State
.