By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas,
 the United States Railroad Labor Board is an agency of the government, created by law, and charged with the duty of adjusting disputes between railroad operators and employees engaged in interstate commerce; and
Whereas,
 the United States Railroad Labor Board has recently handed down decisions, one affecting the wage of the shop craft employees, the other declaring the contract system of shop craft work with outside agencies to be contrary to the intent of the transportation act and, therefore, that such practice must be discontinued; and
Whereas,
 the shop craft employees have elected to discontinue their work, rather than abide by the decision rendered, and certain operators have ignored the decision ordering the abandonment of the contract shop practice; and
Whereas,
 the maintained operation of the railways in interstate commerce and the transportation of United States mails have necessitated the employment of men who choose to accept employment under the terms of the decision, and who have the same indisputable right to work that others have to decline to work; and
Whereas,
 the peaceful settlement of controversies in accordance with law and due. respect for the established agencies of such settlement are essential to the security and well-being of our people;
Now, Therefore, I, Warren G. Harding,
 President of the United States, do hereby make proclamation, directing all persons to refrain from all interference with the lawful efforts to maintain interstate transportation and the carrying of the United States mails.
These activities and the maintained supremacy of the law are the first obligation of the government and all the citizenship of our country. Therefore, I invite the cooperation of all public authorities, state and municipal, and the aid of all good citizens to uphold the laws and to preserve the public peace, and to facilitate those operations in safety which are essential to life and liberty, and the security of property and our common public welfare.
In witness whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington, this 11th day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and forty-seventh.
WARREN G. HARDING
By the President:
CHARLES E. HUGHES, 
Secretary of State
.