By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas,
 there are located in Arizona, about 30 miles northeast of Flagstaff, two groups of prehistoric ruins built by the ancestors of a most picturesque tribe of Indians still surviving in the United States, the Hopi or People of Peace; and 
Whereas,
 it appears that the public interest would be promoted by reserving these prehistoric remains as a National Monument together with as much land as may be necessary for the proper protection thereof, 
Now, Therefore, I, Calvin Coolidge, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section two of the act of Congress entitled, "An Act for the Preservation of American Antiquities," approved June 8, 1906 (34 Stat., 225) do proclaim that there are hereby reserved from all forms of appropriation under the public land laws, subject to all prior valid claims, and set apart as a National Monument to be known as the Wupatki National Monument those two pieces or parcels of land outlined upon the diagram hereto annexed and made a part hereof and more particularly described as follows: The S 1/2 Sec. 32, Township 26 North, Range 9 East; all Sec. 6, W 1/2 Sec. 5, N 1/2 Sec. 7, Township 25 North, Range 9 East; SE 1/4 Sec. 1, NE 1/ 4 Sec. 12, Township 25 North, Range 8 East; and the N 1/2 Sec. 30, Township 25 North, Range 10 East, of the Gila and Salt River Meridian. 
Warning is hereby expressly given to all unauthorized persons not to appropriate, injure, destroy, or remove any of the features or objects included within the boundaries of this Monument and not to locate or settle upon any of the lands thereof. 
The Director of the National Park Service, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, shall have the supervision, management and control of this Monument, as provided in the act of Congress entitled, "An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes," approved August 25, 1916 (39 Stat., 535) and Acts additional thereto or amendatory thereof. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. 
Done
 in the City of Washington this 9th day of December, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and forty-ninth. 
CALVIN COOLIDGE 
By the President: 
CHARLES E. HUGHES 
Secretary of State.