By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas,
 it appears that the public good will be promoted by excluding from the Angeles National Forest, in California, certain areas and temporarily withdrawing the only public lands therein for Indian purposes; 
And Whereas,
 it appears that certain lands immediately heretofore forming a part of the Santa Barbara National Forest, in California, should be transferred to and made a part of the Angeles National Forest; 
And Whereas,
 it appears that certain lands immediately heretofore forming a part of the Angeles National Forest, in California, should constitute a part of the San Bernardino National Forest also in California; 
Now, Therefore, I, Calvin Coolidge, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the Act of Congress approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven (30 Stat., 11 at 34 and 36), entitled, "An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes", do proclaim that the boundaries of the Angeles National Forest are hereby changed and that they are now as shown on the diagram hereto annexed and forming a part thereof; and that this proclamation and those changing the boundaries of the Santa Barbara National Forest and creating the San Bernardino National Forest, which I have also signed this same day, are made and are intended to be and shall be considered as one act to become effective simultaneously. 
And I do also proclaim that under the authority conferred upon me by the act of Congress approved June 25, 1910 (36 Stat., 847), entitled, "An Act To authorize the President of the United States to make withdrawals of public lands in certain cases", as amended August 24, 1912 (37 Stat., 497) and subject to the conditions therein expressed, the following described lands excluded from the Angeles National Forest by this proclamation are hereby temporarily withdrawn for the use and benefit of the Morongo Indians until March 5, 1927: 
In T. 2 S., R. 2 E., S. B. M., N. 1/2 SW. 1/4 Sec. 16, SE. 1/4 Sec. 19 and N. 1/2 SW. 1/4 Sec. 29. 
If legislation be not enacted prior to March 5, 1927, effecting the permanent withdrawal of such lands, and no other direction is given regarding the disposition thereof, they will on that date become subject to disposal under the method prescribed by existing law. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. 
Done
 at the City of Washington this 30th day of September in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and fiftieth. 
CALVIN COOLIDGE 
By the President: 
FRANK B. KELLOGG 
Secretary of State