By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 Congress by act of February 14, 1931 (Public, No. 667 - 71st Cong.), entitled "AN ACT To authorize the President of the United States to establish the Canyon De Chelly National Monument within the Navajo Indian Reservation, Arizona," authorized the President of the United States, with the consent of the Tribal Council of the Navajo Tribe of Indians, to establish the said Canyon De Chelly National Monument by Executive proclamation; and 
Whereas
 Congress by act of March 1, 1933 (Public, No. 404 - 72nd Cong. 2nd Session), entitled "AN ACT To amend the description of land described in section 1 of the act approved February 14, 1931, entitled "AN ACT To authorize the President of the United States to establish the Canyon De Chelly National Monument within the Navajo Indian Reservation, Arizona," amended the description of the land described in section 1 of the act of February 14, 1931; and 
Whereas
 the Navajo Tribal Council Assembly at Fort Wingate, New Mexico, on July 8, 1930, adopted a resolution approving the establishment of the Canyon De Chelly National Monument; and 
Whereas
 it appears to be in the public interest that the cliff dwellings and other features of scientific and educational interest desired to be preserved be more accurately described by amending the description of the land for the Canyon De Chelly National Monument as established by Proclamation No. 1945 dated April 1, 1931; 
Now, Therefore, I, Herbert Hoover,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the said acts of Congress approved February 14, 1931, and March 1, 1933, do proclaim that the Canyon De Chelly National Monument as heretofore established by proclamation shall comprise the following described lands: 
"All lands in Del Muerto, De Chelly, and Monument Canyons, and the canyons tributary thereto, and the lands within one-half mile of the rims of the said canyons, situated in unsurveyed townships 4 and 5 north, range 7 west; townships 4, 5, and 6 north, range 8 west; townships 4 and 5 north, range 9 west; and in surveyed townships 4 and 5 north, range 6 west; townships 3, 6, and 7 north, range 7 west; township 6 north, range 9 west; and township 5 north, range 10 west; embracing about eighty-three thousand eight hundred and forty acres, all of the Navajo meridian, in Arizona," 
and the proclamation dated April 1, 1931, heretofore issued for the establishment of the said national monument is hereby accordingly modified. 
Warning is hereby expressly given to all unauthorized persons not to appropriate, injure, destroy, or remove any feature of this monument and not to locate or settle upon any of the lands thereof. 
The Director of the National Park Service, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, shall have the supervision, management, and control of this monument as provided in the act of Congress entitled "AN ACT To establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes," approved August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535), and acts additional thereto or amendatory thereof. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. 
Done
 at the City of Washington this 3rd day of March in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and thirty-three and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and fifty-seventh. 
HERBERT HOOVER 
By the president: 
HENRY L STIMSON 
Secretary of State.