WHEREAS by Executive Order 9387 of October 15, 1943, the Advisory Board on Just Compensation (hereinafter referred to as the Board) was established in order, among other things, to establish fair and equitable standards, rules, and formulae of general applicability for the guidance of the War Shipping Administration in determining the just compensation to be paid for all vessels requisitioned, purchased, chartered, or insured by the Administration; and
WHEREAS the members of the Board were authorized to serve for a period of three months or for such shorter period of time as might be required for the completion of its functions; and
WHEREAS in completion of its functions, the Board by its report on December 7, 1943, to the Administrator, War Shipping Administration, established such fair and equitable standards, rules, and formulae of general applicability; and
WHEREAS certain specific problems have arisen in determining just compensation to be paid for vessels requisitioned pursuant to the act of June 6, 1941, 55 Stat. 242:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes, and particularly by the First War Powers Act, 1941, as President of the United States and Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. The Board established by the said Executive Order 9387 is hereby re-established to serve for a period of time as may be required for the completion of its functions, for the limited purpose of establishing fair and equitable standards, rules, and formulae of general applicability for the guidance of the War Shipping Administration in determining the just compensation to be paid for all vessels requisitioned pursuant to the act of June 6, 1941, 55 Stat. 242.
2. The Board, as hereby re-established, shall consist of the following members: Judge John J. Parker, Judge Joseph C. Hutcheson, Jr., and Justice Irwin Untermyer.
3. The Board, as re-established, shall have all the power and authority conferred upon it by Executive Order 9387, and the War shipping Administration shall furnish assistance to, and shall be guided by, the determination of the Board to the extent provided by the said Executive order.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
September 10, 1945