By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, including Title I of the First War Powers Act, 1941 (55 Stat. 838), and the War Mobilization and Reconversion Act of 1944 (58 Stat. 785), and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. The Housing Expediter, heretofore established in the Office of War Mobilization and Reconversion, in the exercise of his functions is, among other things, authorized to:
(a) Formulate such plans and programs as are necessary to provide for an increased supply of housing accommodations of all kinds and, in particular, of homes available for sale or rental at moderate prices to veterans of World War II and their immediate families
(b) Issue such orders, regulations, or directives to other executive agencies as may be necessary to provide for the exercise of their powers in a manner required by or consistent with the execution of the aforesaid plans and programs, and to coordinate the activities of such agencies directed to the execution of such plans and programs. Each executive agency shall carry out without delay the orders, regulations, or directives of the Housing Expediter, and shall, to the extent necessary, consistent with governing statutes, modify its operations and procedures from time to time to conform to the directions of the Housing Expediter.
(c) Recommend to the President the enactment of such legislation as may be necessary to provide the authority to carry out such plans and programs formulated under this order as are not authorized under existing law.
(d) Consult and cooperate with other agencies of the Federal Government, state and local Governments, industries, labor, and other groups, both national and local, with respect to the problems created by the housing emergency and the steps which can be taken to remedy it.
2. The executive agencies of the Government shall exercise their emergency powers and other powers for the purpose of aiding in the solution of the problems created by the existing housing emergency, the alleviation of which is vital to an orderly transition from war to peace.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
January 26, 1946