WHEREAS disputes exist between The Atlanta & St. Andrews Bay Railway Company and certain other carriers designated in list A attached hereto and make a part hereof, and certain of their employees represented by the fifteen cooperating railway labor organizations designated in list B attached hereto and made a part hereof; and
WHEREAS these disputes have not heretofore been adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended; and
WHEREAS these disputes, in the judgment of the National Mediation Board, threaten substantially to interrupt interstate commerce to a degree such as to deprive the country of essential transportation service:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 10 of the Railway Labor Act, as amended (45 U. S. C. 160), I hereby create a board of three members, to be appointed by me, to investigate the said disputes.
Each of the carriers involved shall be given independent consideration in such investigation, and the said labor organizations shall be permitted to function as a unit in proceedings before the board.
No member of the said board shall be pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of railway employees or any carrier.
The board shall report its findings to the President with respect to the said disputes within thirty days from the date of this order. The report of the board shall contain separate and independent findings with respect to each of the carriers involved.
As provided by section 10 of the Railway Labor Act, as amended, from this date and for thirty days after the board has made its report to the President, no change, except by agreement, shall be made by any of the carriers involved or their employees in the conditions out of which the said disputes arose.
LIST A
Atlanta & St. Andrews Bay Railway Company
Atlantic & East Carolina Railway Company
Barre & Chelsea Railroad Company
Belfast & Moosehead Lake Railroad Company
Berlin Mills Railway Company
Columbus & Greenville Railway Company
East Tennessee & Western No. Carolina Railroad
Ft. Dodge, Des Moines & Southern Railway
Georgia & Florida Railroad Company
Lackawanna & Wyoming Valley Railroad Company
Lake Champlain & Moriah Railroad Company
Macon, Dublin & Savannah Railroad Company
Midland Terminal Railway Company
Missouri & Arkansas Railway Company
New York, Ontario & Western Railway Company
Port Utilities Commission
Quanah, Acme & Pacific Railway Company
Rapid City, Black Hills & Western Railroad Company
Rio Grande Southern Railroad
Rutland Railroad Company
St. Johnsbury & Lake Champlain Railroad
Toledo, Peoria & Western Railroad
Wichita Falls & Southern Railroad Company
LIST B
International Association of Machinists
International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders and Helpers of America
International Brotherhood of Blacksmiths, Drop Forgers and Helpers
Sheet Metal Workers' International Association
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers
Brotherhood of Railway Carmen of America
International Brotherhood of Firemen, Oilers, Roundhouse and Railway Shop Laborers
Brotherhood of Railway and Steamship Clerks, Freight Handlers, Express and Station Employees
Brotherhood of Maintenance of Way Employees
The Order of Railroad Telegraphers
Brotherhood of Railroad Signalmen of America
National Organization of Master, Mates & Pilots of America
International Longshoremen's Association
Hotel and Restaurant Employees' International Alliance and Bartenders' Int. League of America
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
October 25, 1946