By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes, including the act of March 11, 1941, as amended, entitled "An Act further To Promote the Defense of the United States, and for Other Purposes" (55 Stat. 31), and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. All functions with respect to the maintenance of accounts and other fiscal records relating to lend-lease and reverse lend-lease matters under the said act of March 11, 1941 (hereinafter referred to as the act), are transferred from the Department of State to the Treasury Department and shall be administered under the supervision and direction of the Secretary of the Treasury. The Department of State shall continue to administer all other functions relating to the administration of the act which are now under the jurisdiction of that Department.
2. In carrying out the purposes and provisions of paragraph 1 of this order, the Treasury Department: 
(a) Shall perform all necessary fiscal functions and maintain all necessary fiscal records and prepare all required reports pertaining to the act, except that, until such date as the Director of the Bureau of the Budget shall determine, the Secretary of State shall prepare for the President the reports required under section 5 (b) of the act.
(b) Shall furnish the Department of State with such information and reports concerning lend-lease operations as may be requested by such Department, including information as to the status of funds.
(c) In accordance with the request of the Secretary of State, shall make additional allocations to procurement agencies of the Government of available funds, and shall bill, collect, and account for funds from foreign governments and others, under the act.
(d) After consultation with the Department of State, shall revoke excess allocations in the hands of procurement agencies and return such funds to the master account.
(e) May act through the personnel transferred hereunder or through such other personnel of the Treasury Department as the Secretary of the Treasury may designate.
3. There is transferred to the Treasury Department so much as the Director of the Bureau of the Budget shall determine to relate primarily to the functions transferred by this order of the records, personnel, and property of the Department of State and of the unexpended balances of the funds of the Department of State available or to be made available for use in connection with the administration of the functions transferred by this order.
4. The Department of State shall provide the Treasury Department with two certified copies of all agreements related to lend-lease settlements and with two copies of all other documents and correspondence which in any way affect lend-lease accounting records.
5. The Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Treasury shall from time to time jointly recommend to the Director of the Bureau of the Budget amounts by which lend-lease appropriations may be rescinded or placed in reserve.
6. All prior regulations, rulings, and directives relating to the functions transferred by this order shall remain in effect except as hereafter amended or revoked by the Secretary of the Treasury. To the extent authorized by law, the Secretary of the Treasury may issue such additional regulations and instructions as he may deem necessary to carry out this order.
7. All provisions of prior Executive orders and of prior instructions to any Federal agency in conflict with this order are amended accordingly. 
8. This order shall become effective at the close of business of May 31, 1946.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE, 
May 17, 1946