WHEREAS after investigation I find and proclaim that as a result of a labor dispute there are interruptions of the operations of the transportation system, plants, and facilities of The Mononogahela Connecting Railroad Company; that the war effort will be unduly impeded and delayed by such interruptions; that it has become necessary to take possession and assume control of the said transportation system, plants, and facilities for purposes that are needful or desirable in connection with the present wartime emergency; and that the exercise, as hereinafter specified, of the powers vested in me is necessary to insure the national interest the operation of the said transportation system, plants, and facilities:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the power and authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, including section 9 of the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940 as amended by section 3 of the War Labor Disputes Act (57 Stat. 164), the Act of August 29, 1916 (39 Stat. 619, 645), and the First War Powers Act, 1941 (55 Stat. 838), as President of the United States and Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. The Director of the Office of Defense Transportation is authorized and directed, through or with the aid of any public officers, Federal agencies, or other government instrumentalities that he may designate, to take possession and assume control of the transportation system, plants, and facilities owned or operated by The Monogahela Connecting Railroad Company, but such possession and control shall be limited to real and personal property and other assets used or useful in connection with the operation of the transportation systems of said carrier.
2. The Director is directed to operate, or arrange for the operation of, the transportation system, plants, and facilities taken pursuant to this order in such manner as he deems necessary to assure to the fullest possible extent continuous and uninterrupted transportation service.
3. Subject to applicable provisions of existing law, including the orders of the Office of Defense Transportation issued pursuant to Executive Orders 8989, as amended, and 9729, the said transportation system, plants, and facilities shall be managed and operated under the terms and conditions of employment in effect at the time possession is taken under this order. The Director shall recognize the right of the workers to continue their membership in labor organizations, to bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing with the representatives of the owners of the carrier, subject to the provisions of applicable statutes and Executive orders, as to matters pertaining to wages to be paid or conditions to prevail after termination of possession and control under this order; and to engage in concerted activities for the purpose of such collective bargaining or for other mutual aid or protection, provided that in his opinion such concerted activities do not interfere with the operation of the transportation system, plants, and facilities taken pursuant hereto.
4. Except with the prior written consent of the Director, no attachment by mesne process, garnishment, execution, or otherwise shall be levied on or against any of the real or personal property or other assets, tangible or intangible, in the possession of the Director hereunder.
5. Possession, control, and operation of any plant or facility, or of the transportation system, or any part thereof, or any real or personal property, taken pursuant to this order shall be terminated by the Director when he determines that such possession, control, and operation are no longer necessary to carry out the provisions, and to accomplish the purposes, of this order.
6. For the purposes of paragraph 1 to 5, inclusive, of this order, there are hereby transferred to the Director the functions, powers, and duties vested in the Secretary of War by that part of section 1 of the said Act of August 29, 1916, reading as follows:
"The President, in time of war, is empowered, through the Secretary of War, to take possession and assume control of any system or systems of transportation, or any part thereof, and to utilize the same, to the exclusion as far as may by necessary of all other traffic thereon, for the transfer or transportation of troops, war material and equipment, or for such other purposes connected with the emergency as may be needful or desirable."
7. The Director of the Office of Defense Transportation may request the Secretary of War to furnish protection for persons employed or seeking employment in the plants, facilities, or transportation system of which possession is taken and to furnish protection for such plants, facilities, and transportation system, and may request the Secretary of War to furnish equipment, manpower, and other facilities or services deemed necessary by the Director to carry out the provisions, and to accomplish the purposes, of this order; and the Secretary of war is authorized and directed upon such request to take such action as he deems necessary to furnish such protection, equipment, manpower, or other facilities or services.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
June 14, 1946