WHEREAS by an exchange of notes on December 10, 1945, between the Secretary of State of the United States and the British Ambassador there has been created a joint Anglo-American Committee in Inquiry (hereinafter referred to as the Committee), whose terms of reference are as follows:
1. To examine political, economic and social conditions in Palestine as they bear upon the problem of Jewish immigration and settlement therein and the well-being of the peoples no living therein.
2. To examine the position of the Jews in those countries in Europe where they have been the victims of Nazi and Fascist persecution, and the practical measures taken or contemplated to be taken in those countries to enable them to live free from discrimination and oppression, and to make estimates of those who wish, or will be impelled by their conditions, to migrate to Palestine or other countries outside Europe.
3. To hear the views of competent witnesses and to consult representative Arabs and Jews on the problems of Palestine as such problems are affected by conditions subject to examination under paragraphs 1 and 2 above and by other relevant facts and circumstances, and to make recommendations to the Governments of the United States and of the United Kingdom for ad interim handling of these problems as well as for their permanent solution.
4. To make such other recommendations to the Governments of the United States and of the United Kingdom as may be necessary to meet the immediate needs arising from conditions subject to examination under paragraph 2 above, by remedial action in the European countries in question or by the provision of facilities for emigration to and settlement in countries outside Europe;
AND WHEREAS the Government of the United States is desirous of rendering all possible aid to the Committee to enable it properly to perform the task entrusted to it:
NOW THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. All departments, agencies, and independent establishments of the Executive branch of the Federal Government shall furnish to the Committee, upon the request of the American Chairman of the Committee, such of their records and documents as relate to the subjects referred to the Committee for examination and study under its several terms of reference: Provided, however, that a department, agency, or independent establishment shall not be required to disclose confidential records and documents the disclosure of which would be prejudicial to the interests of the United States: Provided further, that in all such cases, the head of the department, agency, or independent establishment concerned shall furnish the American Chairman of the Committee with a statement justifying the withholding of the records and documents requested by him.
2. Any officer or employee of an Executive department, agency, or independent establishment of the Government possessing personal information or knowledge relating to the subjects referred to the Committee for examination and study under its several terms of reference, may, upon the request of the American Chairman of the Committee and with the approval of the head of the department, agency, or independent establishment concerned, furnish such information or knowledge to the Committee either orally or in writing as shall in each case appear to be desirable.
3. The Secretary of State may assign or detail officers and employees of the Department of State, including officers and employees of the Foreign Service of the United States, for service with the American member of the Committee.
4. The head of any department, agency, or independent establishment of the Government may, upon request of the Secretary of State, detail or assign officers and employees of his department, agency, or independent establishment for service with the American members of the Committee. 
5. The Secretary of War and the Secretary of the Navy are authorized to provide appropriate assistance including the furnishing of available Government-owned motor transportation and other Government-owned and operated facilities which can be spared to enable the Committee properly to perform the tasks entrusted to it.
6. The Secretary of State may, in order to effect the purposes of this order, and in conformity with existing law, delegate to one or more responsible officers of the Department of State the authority vested in him by this order.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE, 
January 18, 1946