By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 the Army of the United States has performed gallantly its part, in magnificent cooperation with our Allies, in accomplishing the utter defeat in the past year of the enemy nations that threatened our freedom and required us to defend it in the most terrible war in history;
Whereas
 our Army continues in active service to the nation in occupying parts of enemy countries to insure the establishment of a lasting peace; and
Whereas
 the Congress, by Senate Concurrent Resolution 5, 75th Congress, agreed to by the House of Representatives on March 16, 1937, has recognized April 6 of each year as Army Day and has requested that the President issue a proclamation annually with respect to that day:
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United Stares of America, in order that we may give especial honor to our Army, to the soldiers of World War II, and to the soldiers who defended our liberty in other wars, do hereby proclaim Saturday, April 6, 1946, as Army Day, and do invite the Governors of the several States to issue proclamations calling for the observance of that day.
I also remind our citizens that our Army, charged with responsibility for defending the United States and our territorial possessions, can carry out its duty only with the full support of our people. I urge my fellow citizens to be mindful of the Army's needs, to the end that our soldiers overseas do not lack the means of performing effectively their continuing duties, and in order that the hardship of their separation from home and loved ones may be alleviated in every possible way. I know that our people will always remember the soldiers who have suffered that we might remain free, and the families of those who have sacrificed their lives for our cause.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the city of Washington this 20th day of March in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventieth. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
JAMES F. BYRNES,
Secretary of State.