By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 it appears that it would be in the interest of administrative management to consolidate certain portions of the Siskiyou, Klamath, and Trinity National Forests, within the State of California, into a national-forest unit designated as the Six Rivers National Forest:
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States, under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 24 of the act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 1103 (16 U.S.C. 471), and section 1 of the act of June 4, 1897, 30 Stat. 11, 36 (16 U.S.C. 473), do proclaim that all lands within the exterior boundaries of those parts of the Siskiyou, Klamath, and Trinity National Forests lying west of the following described line are hereby eliminated from those forests and are consolidated to form and shall hereafter constitute the Six Rivers National Forest:
Beginning at the point on the California-Oregon State boundary line in sec. 31, T. 19 N., R. 4 E., H. M., at intersection with the divide between the Illinois River and Smith River, thence southeasterly along said divide to "Youngs Peak" in sec. 4, T. 17 N., R. 5 E., H. M., thence southerly along the divide between the drainages of the Smith River and Klamath River to Chimney Rock in Sec. 22, T. 14 N., R. 4 E., H. M., thence southeasterly along the divide between drainages of Dillon Creek, Rock Creek, Reynolds Creek, and Teneyok Creek, and those of Blue Creek, Bluff Creek, Camp Creek, and Wilson Creek to the intersection of the Klamath and Salmon Rivers in sec. 4, T. 11 N., R. 6 E., H. M., thence southeasterly along the divide between the drainages of the Salmon River and Klamath River to "Salmon Mountain" in sec. 8, T. 9 N., R. 7 E., H. M., thence southerly along the divide between the drainage of New River and that of the Klamath and Trinity Rivers to the intersection of the Trinity River and New River in sec. 2, T. 5 N., R. 6 E., H. M., thence southwesterly along divide between Gray Creek and Hennessy Creek to summit of "Hennessy Ridge" in sec. 5, T. 5 N., R. 6 E., H. M., thence southerly along divide between the main Trinity River and South Fork Trinity River to "Underwood Mountain" in sec. 11, T. 4 N., R. 6 E., H. M., thence southwesterly along the divide between Underwood Creek and Panther Creek to the South Fork Trinity River in sec. 20, T. 4 N., R. 6 E., H. M., thence southwesterly along the divide between the drainage of Grouse Creek and that of Grapevine, Saddle, Canyon, Monroe, and Big Creeks to the summit of "South Fork Mountain" and divide between South Fork Trinity River and Mad River in sec. 11, T. 3 N., R. 5 E., H. M., thence southeasterly along said divide to its intersection with the south boundary of the Trinity National Forest at "Horsehead Mountain" in sec. 5, T. 26 N., R. 11 W., M. D. M.
It is not intended by this proclamation to give a national-forest status to any publicly-owned lands which have not hitherto had such a status, or to change the status of any publicly-owned lands which have hitherto had national-forest status.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this 3rd day of June in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-first. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
G. C. MARSHALL,
Secretary of State.