By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 the Secretary of the Interior has adopted and has submitted to me for approval the following amendments of the regulations approved by Proclamation No. 2739 of July 31, 1947, relating to migratory birds and game mammals included in the terms of the Convention between the United States and Great Britain for the protection of migratory birds concluded August 16, 1916, and the Convention between the United States and the United Mexican States for the protection of migratory birds and certain game mammals concluded February 7, 1936:
AMENDMENTS OF MIGRATORY BIRD TREATY ACT REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
By virtue of and pursuant to the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of July 34, 1918 (40 Stat. 755), and Reorganization Plan II (53 Stat. 1431), and having determined, in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act of June 11, 1946 (Public Law No. 40479th Congress), that the amendments adopted herein are corrective and that further notice and public procedure thereon are impracticable and unnecessary, I, J. A. Krug, Secretary of the Interior, having due regard to the zones of temperature and to the distribution, abundance, economic value, breeding habits, and times and lines of migratory flight of migratory birds included in the terms of the Convention between the United States and Great Britain for the protection of migratory birds, concluded August 16, 1916, and the Convention between the United States and the United Mexican States for the protection of migratory birds and game mammals, concluded February 7, 1936, have determined when, to what extent, and by what means it is compatible with the terms of the said Act and conventions to allow the hunting, taking, capture, killing, possession, sale, purchase, shipment, transportation, carriage, exportation, and importation of such birds and parts thereof and their nests and eggs, and in accordance with such determinations, do hereby amend the regulations approved by Proclamation No. 2739 of July 31, 1947, by deleting from Regulation 4 thereof, under the headings specified herein, those portions establishing open seasons on waterfowl, coot, rails, and gallinules in the State of Wisconsin and that portion establishing the open season on waterfowl and coot in the State of Oklahoma, and in lieu o such deleted portions do hereby adopt the following:
Waterfowl and coot.
"Wisconsin, October 7 to November 5."
"Oklahoma, October 21 to November 3 and December 16 to December 29."
Rails and gallinules.
"Wisconsin, October 7 to November 5."
These amendments are in accordance with the revised recommendations of the respective State Conservation Departments and in view of the fact that in respect to hunting in Wisconsin they advance the opening dates heretofore specified from October 21 to October 7 and in respect to hunting in Oklahoma the opening date heretofore specified is postponed from October 7 to October 21 and in view of the further fact that the present amendments are corrective of general regulations already in effect, it has been determined that these amendments shall become effective immediately upon publication thereof in the 
Federal Register
.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto subscribed my name and caused the seal of the Department of the Interior to be affixed, this 25th day of September, 1947. 
J. A. KRUG,
Secretary of the Interior.
And Whereas
 upon consideration it appears that approval of the foregoing amendments will effectuate the purposes of the aforesaid Migratory Bird Treaty Act:
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 3 of the said Migratory Bird Treaty Act of July 3, 1918, do hereby approve and proclaim the foregoing amendments.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this 27th day of September in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-second. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President,
ROBERT A. LOVETT,
Acting Secretary of State.