By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 10 of the act of March 3, 1933, as amended by section 6 of the act of August 2, 1946, 60 Stat. 808 (5 U.S.C. 73b), and in the interest of the internal management of the Government, I hereby prescribe the following regulations governing allowances for actual transportation expenses in excess of the lowest first-class rate in certain cases as hereinafter defined:
1. Except as to (1) military officers traveling in a mileage status and (2) civilian officers or employees and their dependents, these regulations shall be applicable to persons for whom the Department of the Army, the Department of the Air Force, the Department of the Navy, the Marine Corps, the Coast Guard, the Coast and Geodetic Survey, and the Public Health Service are authorized to furnish transportation.
2. Whenever under authority of law actual expenses for transportation may be allowed, allowances therefor shall not exceed the lowest first-class rate in effect on the facility used in such transportation except as follows:
(a) Allowances may be made for transportation, including sleeping accommodations, in excess of the lowest first-class rate in effect on the facility used in such transportation upon certification by the person issuing the procuring instrument for transportation and making reservation therefor, on the procuring instrument and such other documents as may be required in support of travel-expense vouchers under regulations prescribed by the head of the agency concerned, that at the time the reservation was made accommodations of the lowest first-class rate in effect on the facility used were not available, and that the accommodations used were at the lowest first-class rate then available.
(b) Whenever persons to which this order is applicable purchase from personal funds their own transportation, including sleeping accommodations, in whole or in part, and such transportation is at a rate in excess of the lowest first-class rate in effect on the facility used, they shall make on their travel expense voucher the applicable certification required by paragraph 2(a) hereof. 
3. In either of the cases described in paragraph 2 hereof, the certification shall be accepted as prima facie evidence of the facts to which certification is made.
4. The use of a compartment or such other accommodations as may be authorized or approved by the head of the agency concerned or such subordinates as he may designate may be allowed when required for purposes of security.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
April 10, 1948