By virtue of the authority vested in me by title I of the Selective Service Act of 1948, approved June 24, 1948 (62 Stat. 604), I hereby prescribe the following amendments of the Selective Service Regulations prescribed in part by Executive Order No. 9979 of July 20, 1948, and in part by Executive Order No. 9988 of August 20, 1948, and constituting portions of Chapter VI of Title 32 of the Code of Federal Regulations;
1. Section 604.1 of Part 604, Selective Service Officers, is amended by adding a new paragraph (h) at the end thereof reading as follows:
(h) To purchase such printing, binding, and blankbook work from public, commercial, or private printing establishments or binderies upon orders placed by the Public Printer or upon waivers issued in accordance with section 12 of the Printing Act approved January 12, 1895, as amended, and to obtain by purchase, loan, or gift such equipment and supplies for the Selective Service System, as he may deem necessary to carry out the functions of the Selective Service System, with or without advertising or formal contract.
2. The table of contents of Part 611, Duty and Responsibility to Register, is amended by adding at the end thereof the following: "611.11 Aliens who are not required to register."
3. The following new section is added to Part 611 immediately following § 611.6:
§ 611.11 Aliens who are not required to register. (a) A male alien who is now in or who hereafter enters the United States and who has not declared his intention to become a citizen of the United States shall not be required to be registered under section 3 of title I of the Selective Service Act of 1948 and shall be relieved from liability for training and service under section 4(b) of said Act provided:
(1) He is a foreign diplomatic representative, a technical attaché of a foreign embassy or legation, a consul general, a consul, a vice consul, or a consular agent of a foreign country, or a member of the family of any person mentioned in this subparagraph;
(2) He is a full time official or employee of a foreign government who is a national of the country employing him and who has been notified to the Department of State, or a member of the family of such official or employee;
(3) He is a full time official or employee of a public international organization which has been designated by the President under the provisions of the International Organizations Immunities Act, approved December 29, 1945 (59 Stat. 669), or a member of the family of any such person;
(4) He is a person who has entered the United States and remains therein pursuant to the provisions of section 11 of the Agreement between the United Nations and the United States of America Regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations as approved in Public Law 357, 80th Congress, approved August 4, 1947; or
(5) He is a member of a group of persons who have been temporarily admitted to the United States under an arrangement with the government of the country of which they are nationals, or an appropriate agency thereof, for seasonal or temporary employment, and continues to be employed in the work for which he was admitted.
(b) Each alien who is in one of the categories described in subparagraph (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of paragraph (a) must have in his personal possession, at all times, an official document issued pursuant to the authorization of or described by the Director of Selective Service which identifies him as a person not required to present himself for and submit to registration.
4. The table of contents of Part 621, Preparation for Classification, is amended by adding at the end thereof the following: "621.16 Permit to leave the United States."
5. The following new section is added to Part 621 immediately following § 621.15:
§ 621.16 Permit to leave the United States. Local boards are authorized to issue to a registrant a Permit of the Local Board for Registrant to Depart from the United States (SSS Form No. 300) and should issue the permit unless it is found that the registrant's absence is likely to interfere with the performance of his obligations under the Selective Service Act of 1948. Before determining whether a permit should be issued, the local board may require the registrant to complete and file his Classification Questionnaire (SSS Form No. 100) and such other forms and information as may be necessary to complete his classification. The local board may thereupon classify the registrant if it appears necessary to a determination of the advisability of issuing the permit.
6. Section 622.18 of Part 622, Classification Rules and Principles, is amended to read as follows:
(1) Has entered the United States for a specific temporary purpose which would normally be concluded within six months, has not been gainfully employed during his stay in the United States, and continues to pursue the purpose for which he entered; or
(2) Has, under requirements mutually agreeable to the Secretary of State, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, and the Director of Selective Service, entered the United States temporarily for the purpose of study, teaching, practical training, or research in agriculture, industry, commerce, public health, education, or in related fields, and continues to satisfactorily pursue such endeavor.
(b) In Class IV-C shall be placed any registrant who is an alien and who has not declared his intention to become a citizen of the United States and who is a national of a country with which there is in effect a treaty or international agreement exempting nationals of that country from military service while they are within the United States and for whom an application for deferment has been communicated to the Department of State by the government of that country and has been approved by the Department of State.
(c) In Class IV-C shall be placed any registrant who is an alien and who, prior to his induction, has made application to be relieved from liability for training and service in the armed forces of the United States by filing with the local board an Application by Alien for Relief from Military Service (SSS Form No. 130), executed in duplicate. The local board shall forward the original of such form to the Director of Selective Service through the State Director of Selective Service and shall retain the duplicate in the registrant's Cover Sheet (SSS Form No. 101).
(d) In Class IV-C shall be placed any registrant who is an alien and because of his nationality is within a class of persons not acceptable to the armed forces of the United States for training and service.
(e) In Class IV-C shall be placed any registrant who is an alien and has departed from and is no longer residing in the United States. Such alien shall be placed in Class IV-C even though he is a delinquent but this classification shall in no way relieve him from liability for prosecution for violation of the selective service law. If any registrant so classified under this paragraph returns to the United States to reside therein, his classification shall be reopened and he shall be classified anew.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
August 28, 1948