By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 10 of the Pay Readjustment Act of June 16, 1942 (56 Stat. 359, 363), Executive Order 9984 of July 31, 1948, prescribing regulations governing the furnishing of clothing in kind or payment of cash allowances in lieu thereof to enlisted personnel of the Navy, Coast Guard, Naval Reserve, and Coast Guard Reserve, is hereby amended as follows:
1. The following new subsection 11 is added to Section A at the end thereof:
11. In addition to the allowances herein prescribed, enlisted men, including those holding chief petty officer rating, who, upon the effective date of this order, are serving with or who are subsequently assigned to duty as members of the United States navy Band, shall receive a cash allowance not to exceed $80.00 for the purchase of the full dress uniform prescribed for members of the United States Navy Band by the Secretary of the Navy.
2. The following new subsection 8 is added to Section B at the end thereof:
8. (a) The amount of the cash allowance prescribed in subsection A11 shall be payable to-
(1) Enlisted men, including those holding chief petty officer rating, who, upon the effective date of this order, are actually serving as members of the United States Navy Band, and
(2) Enlisted men, including those holding chief petty officer rating, who may, subsequent to the effective date of this order, be assigned to duty as members of the United States Navy Band, and
(3) Enlisted men, including those holding chief petty officer rating, upon reenlistment or recall to active duty subsequent to the expiration of three months from date of last discharge or release from active duty, who are assigned to duty as members of the United States Navy Band.
(b) The allowance prescribed in the said subsection A11 shall be payable only once during any period of continuous active duty.
(c) The amount of the cash clothing allowance prescribed in subsection A11 shall be paid upon the written order of the Commanding Officer, U.S. Naval Receiving Station, Washington, D.C.
3. This order shall be effective as of December 1, 1948.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
December 20, 1948