WHEREAS the Island of Guam was placed under the control of the Department of the Navy by Executive Order No. 108-A of December 23, 1898; and
WHEREAS a committee composed of the Secretaries of State, War, the Navy, and the Interior recommended on June 18, 1947, that administrative responsibility for the Island of Guam be transferred to a civilian agency of the Government at the earliest practicable date as determined by the President; and
WHEREAS plans for the orderly transfer of administrative responsibility for the Island of Guam from the Secretary of the Navy to the Secretary of the Interior are embodied in a memorandum of understanding between the Department of the Navy and the Department of the Interior, approved by me on August 10, 1949, and it is the view of the two departments, as expressed in that memorandum, that such transfer should take effect on July 1, 1950; and
WHEREAS the transfer of administration of the Island of Guam from the Secretary of the Navy to the Secretary of the Interior, effective July 1, 1950, appears to be in the public interest:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
1. The administration of the Island of Guam is hereby transferred from the Secretary of the Navy to the Secretary of the Interior, such transfer to become effective on July 1, 1950.
2. The Department of the Navy and the Department of the Interior shall proceed with the plans for the transfer of the administration of the Island of Guam as embodied in the above mentioned memorandum of understanding between the two departments.
3. When the transfer of administration made by this order become effective, the Secretary of the Interior shall take such action as may be necessary and appropriate, and in harmony with applicable law, for the administration of civil government on the Island of Guam.
4. The executive departments and agencies of the Government are authorized and directed to cooperate with the Departments of the Navy and Interior in the effectuation of the provisions of this order.
5. The said Executive Order No. 108-A of December 23, 1898, is revoked, effective July 1, 1950.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
September 7, 1949