WHEREAS section 4(j) of the Selective Service Act of 1948, as amended by the act of September 9, 1950, Public Law 779, 81st Congress, provides in part as follows:
(j) The President shall establish a National Advisory Committee which shall advise the Selective Service System and shall coordinate the work of such State and local volunteer advisory committees as may be established to cooperate with the National Advisory Committee, with respect to the selection of needed medical and dental and allied specialist categories of persons as referred to in subsection (i). The members of the National Advisory Committee shall be selected from among individuals who are outstanding in medicine, dentistry, and the sciences allied thereto, but except for the professions of medicine and dentistry, it shall not be mandatory that all such fields of endeavor be represented on the committee.
In the performance of their functions, the National Advisory Committee and the State and local volunteer advisory committees shall give appropriate consideration to the respective needs of the Armed Forces and of the civilian population for the services of medical, dental, and allied specialist personnel; and, in determining the medical, dental, and allied specialist personnel available to serve the needs of any community, such committees shall give appropriate consideration to the availability in such community of medical, dental, and allied specialist personnel who have attained the fifty-0first anniversary of their birth.
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the said section 4(j) of the Selective Service Act of 1948 as amended, it is ordered as follows:
1. There is hereby established the National Advisory Committee on the Selection of Doctors, Dentists, and Allied Specialists (hereinafter referred to as the Committee), which shall be composed of such members as may be appointed by the President, and the chairman of which shall be designated by the President.
2. In performing its functions, as prescribed by the sad section 4(j) of the Selective Service Act of 1948 as amended, the Committee shall consult with the Director of Selective Service and with such other officials and agencies as may be necessary, including the Secretary of Defense and appropriate officials of the Departments of the Army, Navy, and Air Force, the Department of Labor, the National Security Resources Board, and the Federal Security Agency.
3. All executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government are requested to cooperate with the Committee and to furnish it such available information as it may require for the performance of its duties.
4. The Selective Service System shall defray necessary expenses of the Committee, including the compensation of the members thereof, within limits of applicable law.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
October 4, 1950