By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 I find such action to be practicable and desirable, in the interest of the national defense, and in the national interest:
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Selective Service Act of 1948, as amended, and as President of the United States, hereby proclaim that Proclamation No. 2906 of October 6, 1950, be, and it is hereby, amended, effective as of October 6, 1950, so as to exempt from the force and effect thereof, until otherwise directed by the President by proclamation, (1) commissioned officers, warrant officers, pay clerks, enlisted men, and aviation cadets of the Regular Army, the navy, the Air Force, the Marine Corps, the Coast Guard, the Coast and Geodetic Survey, and the Public Health Service, and (2) aliens who are residing in the United States and have not declared their intention of becoming citizens of the United States and who are also in one of the following categories: (a) alien students admitted under subdivision (e) of section 4 of the Immigration Act approved May 26, 1924, as amended, (b) aliens recognized as diplomatic, consular, military or civilian officials or employees of a foreign government and members of their families, (c) aliens who are officials or employees of a public international organization recognized under the International Organizations Immunities Act, approved December 29, 1945 (59 Stat. 669), and members of their families, (d) aliens who have entered the United States and remain therein pursuant to the provisions of section 11 of the Agreement between the United Nations and the United States of America regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations, as approved in Public Law 357, 80th Congress (61 Stat. 756), (e) aliens who are nationals of a country with which there is in effect a treaty or international agreement exempting its nationals from military service while they are within the United States, or (f) other aliens whose admission to the United States is for a temporary stay only: Provided, that such exemption shall not continue after the cause thereof shall cease to exist.
The said proclamation of October 6, 1950, is hereby further amended by substituting for the words "doctor(s) of medical dentistry" wherever they occur therein, the words "doctor(s) of dental medicine."
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this 27th day of December in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-fifth. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
DEAN ACHESON,
Secretary of State.