By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. There is hereby created a Commission to be known as the President's Commission on Migratory Labor, which shall consist of a Chairman and four other members to be designated by the President.
2. The Commission is authorized and directed to inquire into
(a) social, economic, health, and educational conditions among migratory workers, both alien and domestic, in the United States;
(b) problems created by the migration of workers, for temporary employment, into the United States, pursuant to the immigration laws or otherwise;
(c) responsibilities now being assumed by Federal, State, county and municipal authorities with respect to alleviating the conditions among migratory workers, both alien and domestic;
(d) whether sufficient numbers of local and migratory workers can be obtained from domestic sources to meet agricultural labor needs and, if not, the extent to which the temporary employment of foreign workers may be required to supplement the domestic labor supply; and
(e) the extent of illegal migration of foreign workers into the United States and the problems created thereby, and whether, and in what respect, current law enforcement measures and the authority and means possessed by Federal, State, and local governments may be strengthened and improved to eliminate such illegal migration.
3. The Commission shall make a report of its studies to the President in writing not later than December 15, 1950, including its recommendations for Governmental acti9on, either legislative or administrative.
4. In connection with its studies and inquiries, the Commission is authorized to hold such publ8ic hearings and to hear such witnesses as it deems appropriate.
5. To the extent that the studies, inquiries, and recommendations of the Commission involve considerations of international arrangements and policies the Commission shall consult with the Department of State.
6. All executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government are authorized and directed to cooperate with the Commission in its work and to furnish the Commission such information and assistance, not inconsistent with law, as it may require in the performance of its duties.
7. During the fiscal year 1950, the compensation of the members of the Commission (including traveling expenses and per-diem allowances) and the expenditures of the Commission shall be paid out of an allotment made by the President from the appropriation appearing under the heading "Emergency Fund for the President: in the Independent Offices Appropriation Act, 1950 (Public Law 266, approved August 24, 1949); and during the fiscal year 1951 such compensation and expenditures shall be similarly paid from any corresponding or like appropriation made available for the fiscal year 1951. Such payments shall be made without regard to the provisions of section 3681 of the Revised Statutes (31 U.S.C. 672), section 9 of the Act of March 4, 1909, 35 Stat. 1027 (31 U.S.C. 673) and such other provisions of law as the President may hereafter specify.
8. Thirty days after rendition of its report to the President, the Commission shall cease to exist unless otherwise determined by further Executive Order.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
June 3, 1950