By virtue of the authority vested in me by the United Nations Participation Act of 1945 (59 Stat. 619), as amended by the act of October 10, 1949, 63 Stat. 734, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. The Representative of the United States to the United Nations, the Deputy Representative of the United States to the United Nations, the Deputy Representative of the United States to the Security Council of the United Nations, representatives of the United States in the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations and its Commissions, representatives of the United States in the Trusteeship Council, the Atomic Energy Commission, the Commission for Conventional Armaments, and the Military Staff Committee of the United Nations, and representatives to organs and agencies of the United Nations appointed or designated and included within the United States Mission to the United Nations as herein designated, together with their deputies, staffs, and offices, shall constitute and be known as the United States Mission to the United Nations.
2. The Representative of the United States to the United Nations shall be the Chief of Mission in charge of the United States Mission to the United Nations. The Chief of Mission shall coordinate at the seat of the United Nations the activities of the Mission in carrying out the instructions of the President transmitted either by the Secretary of State or by other means of transmission as directed by the President. Instructions to the representatives of the United States Joint Chiefs of Staff in the Military Staff Committee of the United Nations shall be transmitted by the Joint Chiefs of Staff. On request of the Chief of Mission, such representatives shall, in addition to their responsibilities under the Charter of the United Nations, serve as advisers in the United States Mission to the United Nations.
3. The Chief of Mission shall be responsible for the administration of the Mission, including personnel, budget, obligation and expenditure of funds, and the central administrative services; provided that he shall not be responsible for the internal administration of the personnel, budget, and obligation and expenditure of funds of the representatives of the United States Joint Chiefs of Staff in the Military Staff Committee of the United Nations. The Chief of Mission shall discharge his responsibilities under this paragraph in accordance with such rules and regulations as the Secretary of State may from time to time prescribe.
4. The Deputy Representative of the United States to the United Nations shall be the Deputy Chief of Mission, who shall act as Chief of Mission in the absence of the Representative of the United States to the United Nations.
5. This order supersedes Executive Order No. 9844 of April 28, 1947, entitled "Designating the United States Mission to the United Nations and Providing for Its Direction and Administration."
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
February 9, 1950