By virtue of the authority vested in me by Title I of the Selective Service Act of 1948 (62 Stat. 604), as amended, I hereby prescribe the following amendments of the Selective Service Regulations prescribed by Executive Order No. 9988 of August 20, 1948, and constituting portions of Chapter XVI of Title 32 of the Code of Federal Regulations:
1. Section 1622.10 of Part 1622, Classification Rules and Principles, is amended to read as follows:
§ 1622.10 Necessary employment defined. (a) A registrant's employment in industry or other occupation, service in office, or activity in research, or medical, scientific, or other endeavors, shall be considered to be necessary to the maintenance of the national health, safety, or interest only when all of the following conditions exist:
(1) The registrant is, or but for a seasonal or temporary interruption would be, engaged in such activity.
(2) The registrant cannot be replaced because of a shortage of persons with his qualifications or skill in such activity.
(3) The removal of the registrant would cause a material loss of effectiveness in such activity.
(b) A registrant's activity in study may be considered to be necessary to the maintenance of the national health, safety, or interest when any of the following conditions exist:
(1) The registrant has been accepted for admission to or is a student in a professional school of medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, osteopathy, or optometry and the school in which he is enrolled has certified that he is satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course of instruction leading to his graduation.
(2) The registrant is a full-time graduate student seeking a graduate degree and the graduate school at which he is in attendance has certified that he currently is meeting degree requirements and is expected to attain his degree.
(3) The registrant has been accepted for admission to a graduate school for the class next commencing as a candidate for a graduate degree, or has been accepted for admission to a college, university, or similar institution of learning for the class next commencing for a full-time course of instruction or has entered upon and is satisfactorily pursuing such course, and, within such categories as the Director of Selective Service, with the approval of the President, may prescribe, either has maintained a required scholastic standing, or has attained on a qualification test a score, or both such standing and score, to be prescribed by the Director of Selective Service with the approval of the President.
(c) The Director of Selective Service is authorized to prescribe such qualification test or tests as he may deem necessary for carrying out the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section and to prescribe the procedures for the administration of such test or tests, for the certification of the results thereof, and for the certification of any other information required in carrying out the provisions of paragraph (b).
(d) The President may, from time to time (1) designate special categories of occupation, employment, or activity essential to the national health, safety, or interest; and (2) prescribe regulations governing the deferment of individual registrants engaged in such occupations, employments, or activities.
2. Paragraph (a) of § 1622.13 is amended to read as follows:
§ 1622.13 Class II-C: Registrant is deferred because of agricultural occupation. (a) In Class II-C shall be placed any registrant who is employed in the production for market of a substantial quantity of those agricultural commodities which are necessary to the maintenance of the national health, safety, or interest, but only when all of the conditions described in paragraph (a) of § 1622.10 are found to exist.
3. The table of contents of Part 1622 is amended by inserting immediately after "1622.28 Identification of Class I-C registrant transferred to a Reserve component of the armed forces." The following: "1622.29 Identification of Class II-A registrants who are students."
4. The following new section is added to Part 1622 immediately following § 1622.28:
§ 1622.29 Identification of Class II-A registrants who are students. Whenever a registrant is classified in Class II-A by reason of his activity in study his classification shall be followed with the identification "(S)" whenever it appears on any record of such registrant.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
March 31, 1951