By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 under authority vested in me by title I of the Selective Service Act of 1948 I provided by proclamation No. 2799 of July 20, 1948, for the registration in the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Territories of Alaska and Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands of male citizens of the United States and other male persons residing in the United States subject to registration under section 3 of the said title;
Whereas
 the 1951 Amendments to the Universal Military Training and Service Act, Public Law 51, Eighty-second Congress, approved June 19, 1951, amended sections 1(a), 3, and 16(b) of title I of the Selective Service Act of 1948 (62 Stat. 604), as amended, to read as follows:"
"SECTION 1. (a) This Act may be cited as the 'Universal Military Training and Service Act'."
* * * * *
"SEC. 3. Except as otherwise provided in this title, it shall be the duty of every male citizen of the United States, and every other male person now or hereafter in the United States, who, on the day or days fixed for the first or any subsequent registration, is between the ages of eighteen and twenty-six, to present himself for and submit to registration at such time or times and place or places, and in such manner, as shall be determined by proclamation of the President and by rules and regulations prescribed hereunder."
* * * * *
"SEC. 156. When used in this title--***
(b) The term 'United States', when used in a geographical sense, shall be deemed to mean the several States, the District of Columbia, Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and Guam."
And Whereas
 under authority vested in me by title I of the Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended, I provided by Proclamation No. 2938 of August 16, 1951, for the registration in Guam of male citizens of the United States and other male persons in Guam, and by Proclamation No. 2937 of August 16, 1951, for the registration in the Canal Zone of male citizens of the United States in the Canal Zone, subject to registration under section 3 of the said title:
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by title I of the Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended, do proclaim the following:
1. The registration of male citizens of the United States who are required to register by the said Proclamation No. 2799 of July 20, 1948, shall continue to be accomplished in accordance with the provisions of that proclamation.
2. The registration in the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Territories of Alaska and Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands of male persons who are not citizens of the United States and who are subject to registration under section 3 of title I of the Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended, shall hereafter be accomplished in accordance with paragraph numbered 3 of this proclamation.
3. (a) The registration of male persons who are not citizens of the United States who shall have attained the eighteenth anniversary of the day of their birth and who shall have not attained the twenty-sixth anniversary of the day of their birth and who shall have not attained the twenty-sixth anniversary of the day of their birth shall take place in the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Territories of Alaska and Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands between the hours of 8:00 A.M. and 5:00 P.M. on the day or days hereinafter designated for their registration, as follows:
(1) Every person born on or after September 15, 1925, but not after September 14, 1933, shall be registered on Friday, the 14th day of September, 1951, or on any day within the period of six months following the day on which he entered any of the following: The continental United States, the Territory of Alaska, the Territory of Hawaii, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and Guam.
(b) Every male person now or hereafter in the United States who is not a citizen of the United States, other than persons excepted by or pursuant to section 6(a) of title I of the Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended, and those previously registered pursuant to the said Proclamation No. 2799 of July 20, 1948, or pursuant to the said Proclamation No. 2938 of August 16, 1951, who is within any of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Territory of Alaska, the Territory of Hawaii, Puerto Rico, or the Virgin Islands and who shall have attained the eighteenth anniversary of the day of his birth and who shall have not attained the twenty-sixth anniversary of the day of his birth on the day or any of the days fixed herein for his registration is required to and shall on that day or any of those days present himself for and submit to registration before a duly designated registration official or selective service local board having jurisdiction in the area in which he has his permanent home or in which he may happen to be on that day or any of those days.
(c) If a person subject to registration who is not a citizen of the United States is in any of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Territory of Alaska, the Territory of Hawaii, Puerto Rico, or the Virgin Islands, on the day or any of the days fixed for registration but because of circumstances beyond his control is unable to present himself for and submit to registration on that day or any of those days he shall do so as soon as possible after the cause for such inability ceases to exist. If a person subject to registration who is not a citizen of the United States is not in any of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Territory of Alaska, the Territory of Hawaii, Puerto Rico, or the Virgin Islands, on the day or any of the days fixed herein for the registration of a person of his age but subsequently enters any of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Territory of Alaska, the Territory of Hawaii, Puerto Rico, or the Virgin Islands, he shall present himself for and submit to registration before a duly designated registration official or selective service local board within the period of six months following the day on which he entered any of the following: The continental United States, the Territory of Alaska, the Territory of Hawaii, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and Guam.
(d) Every person subject to registration is required to familiarize himself with the rules and regulations governing registration and to comply therewith.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this 30th day of August in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-sixth. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
DEAN ACHESON,
Secretary of State.