By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 sections 5 and 11 of the Trade Agreements Extension Act of 1951 (Public Law 50, 82d Congress) provide as follows:
SEC. 5. As soon as practicable, the President shall take such action as is necessary to suspend, withdraw or prevent the application of any reduction in any rate of duty, or binding of any existing customs or excise treatment, or other concession contained in any trade agreement entered into under authority of section 350 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended and extended, to imports from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and to imports from any nation or area dominated or controlled by the foreign government or foreign organization controlling the world Communist movement.
SEC. 11. The President shall, as soon as practicable, take such measures as may be necessary to prevent the importation of ermine, fox, kolinsky, marten, mink, muskrat, and weasel furs and skins, dressed or undressed, which are the product of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics or of Communist China. 
Whereas
 an important element in determining when it may be practicable to apply these provisions to particular articles is the ability to do so consistently with the international obligations of the United States;
Whereas
, in giving effect to the procedures available to free the United States from international obligations existing with respect to some of the nations and areas covered by the above provisions, it will not be practicable to apply such provisions to all such nations and areas at the same time;
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes, including the said sections 5 and 11 of the Trade Agreements Extension Act of 1951, do proclaim:
PART I
That the application of reduced rates of duty (including rates of import tax) established pursuant to trade agreements heretofore or hereafter entered into under the authority of section 350 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as originally enacted or as amended and extended (ch. 474, 48 Stat. 943; ch. 22, 50 Stat. 24; ch. 96, 54 Stat. 107; ch. 118, 57 Stat. 125; ch. 269, 59 Stat. 410; ch. 678, 62 Stat. 1053; ch. 585, 63 Stat. 697; Public Law 50, 82d Congress), shall be suspended with respect to imports from such nations and areas referred to in section 5 as may be specified in any notification pursuant to this part of this proclamation given by the President to the Secretary of the Treasury, and published in the 
Federal Register,
 which are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on such date as may be specified for each such nation or area in the notification, or are so entered or withdrawn thereafter until such date as may be specified in a later notification and so published for the termination of such suspension. For the purposes of this part the term "imports from such nations and areas" shall mean articles imported directly or indirectly into the United States from nations or areas specified in an effective notification, but shall not in any case include articles the growth, produce, or manufacture of any other nation or area.
PART II
That the entry, or withdrawal from warehouse, for consumption of ermine, fox, kolinsky, marten, mink, muskrat, and weasel furs and skins, dressed or undressed, shall be prohibited as to products of such nations and areas as may be specified in any notification pursuant to this part of this proclamation given by the President to the Secretary of the Treasury, and published in the 
Federal Register,
 on such date as may be specified for each such nation or area in the notification, and thereafter until such date as may be so specified in a later notification and so published for the termination of such prohibition.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this First day of August in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-sixth. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
DEAN ACHESON
Secretary of State.