By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 the import duties on zinc-bearing ores imposed under paragraph 393 of Title I of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, and on zinc in blocks, pigs, and slabs imposed under paragraph 394 of such title, have been suspended by Public Law 258, 82d Congress, approved February 11, 1952 (66 Stat. 7), with respect to imports entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption during the period beginning February 12, 1952, and ending with the close of March 31, 1953, or the termination of the national emergency proclaimed by me on December 16, 1950, whichever is earlier;
Whereas
 the said Public Law 258 contains the following proviso:
Provided, That when, for any one calendar month during such period, the average market price of slab zinc (Prime Western, f.o.b. East St. Louis) for that month has been below 18 cents per pound, the Tariff Commission, within fifteen days after the conclusion of such calendar month, shall so advise the President, and the President shall, by proclamation, not later than twenty days after he has been so advised by the Tariff Commission, revoke the suspension of duties made by this Act, such revocation to be effective with respect to articles entered for consumption or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption after the date of such proclamation.; 
And Whereas
 on the third day of July 1952 the Tariff Commission reported to me that it has found that the average market price of slab zinc (Prime Western, f.o.b. East St. Louis) for the month of June 1952 was below 18 cents per pound:
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, pursuant to the said proviso of Public Law 258, 82d Congress, do hereby proclaim the revocation of the suspension of duties provided for in the said Public Law 258, such revocation to be effective with respect to articles entered for consumption or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption after the date of this proclamation.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this 23rd day of July in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-seventh. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
DEAN ACHESON,
Secretary of State.