By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 by Proclamation No. 2352 of September 8, 1939, the President proclaimed the existence of a national emergency in connection with and to the extent necessary for the proper observance, safeguarding, and enforcing of the neutrality of the United States of America and the strengthening of our national defense within the limits of peace-time authorizations; and
Whereas
 by Proclamation No. 2487 of May 27, 1941, the President proclaimed the existence of an unlimited national emergency, requiring that the military, naval, air, and civilian defenses of this country be put on the basis of readiness to repel any and all acts or threats of aggression directed toward any part of the Western Hemisphere; and
Whereas
 acts of aggression against the United States of America by Axis Powers subsequently led to declarations by the Congress of the existence of states of war between the United States of America and Japan, Germany, Italy, Hungary, Rumania and Bulgaria; and
Whereas
 the state of war between the United States of America and Japan, which was the last of the aforesaid states of war still existing, was terminated by the coming into force this day of the Treaty of Peace with Japan signed at San Francisco on September 8, 1951:
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, do proclaim that the national emergencies declared to exist by the proclamations of September 8, 1939, and May 27, 1941, terminated this day upon the entry into force of the Treaty of Peace with Japan.
Nothing in this proclamation shall be construed to affect Proclamation No. 2914, issued by the President on December 16, 1950, declaring that world conquest by communist imperialism is the goal of the forces of aggression that have been loosed upon the world, and proclaiming the existence of a national emergency requiring that the military, naval, air, and civilian defenses of this country be strengthened as speedily as possible to the end that we may be able to repel any and all threats against our national security and to fulfill our responsibilities in the efforts being made through the United Nations and otherwise to bring about lasting peace; and nothing herein shall be construed to affect the continuation of the said emergency of September 8, 1939, as specified in the Emergency Powers Interim Continuation Act, approved April 14, 1952 (Public Law 313-82d Congress), for the purpose of continuing the use of property held under the Act of October 14, 1940, ch. 862, 54 Stat. 1125, as amended.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this twenty-eighth day of April in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-sixth. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
DEAN ACHESON,
Secretary of State.