By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. There is hereby established in the Executive Office of the President a commission to be known as the President's Commission on Immigration and Naturalization, which shall be composed of a Chairman, a Vice Chairman, and five other members, all of whom shall be designated by the President.
SEC. 2 The Commission is authorized and directed to make a survey and evaluation of the immigration and naturalization policies of the United States, and shall make recommendations to the President for such legislative, administrative, or other action as in its opinion may be desirable in the interest of the economy, security, and responsibilities of this country. The Commission shall give particular consideration to:
(a) the requirements and administration of our immigration laws with respect to the admission , naturalization and denaturalization of aliens, and their exclusion and deportation;
(b) the admission of immigrants into this country in the light of our present and prospective economic and social conditions and of other pertinent consideration; and
(c) the effect of our immigration laws and their administration, including the national origin quota system, on the conduct of the foreign policies of the United States, and the need for authority to meet emergency conditions such as the present overpopulation of parts of Western Europe and the serious refugee and escapee problems in such areas.
SEC. 3. In performing its functions under this order, the Commission may prescribe such rules of procedure, and may hold such public hearings and hear such witnesses as it may deem appropriate.
SEC. 4. All executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government are authorized and directed to cooperate with the Commission in its work and to furnish the Commission such assistance, not inconsistent with law, as it may require in the performance of its functions.
SEC. 5. The expenditures of the Commission shall be paid out of an allotment made by the President from the appropriation entitled "Emergency Fund for the President-National Defense" in Title I of the Independent Offices Appropriation Act, 1953 (Public Law 455, 82nd Congress), approved July 5, 1952. Such payments shall be made without regard to the provision of (a) section 3681 of the Revised Statutes (31 U.S.C. 672), (b) section 9 of the Act of March 4, 1909, 35 Stat. 1027 (31 U.S.C. 673), and (c) such other laws as the President may hereafter specify. The members of the Commission shall receive such compensation and expense allowances, payable out of the said allotment, as the President shall hereafter fix, except that no compensation shall be so fixed with respect to any person while receiving other compensation from the United States.
SEC. 6. The Commission shall make a final written report to the President not later than January 1, 1953, including its recommendations for legislative, administrative or other action. The Commission may also make such earlier reports to the President as it may deem appropriate. The Commission shall cease to exist 30 days after rendition of its final report to the President.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
September 4, 1952