By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 certain regulations designated as Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea, 1948, were approved by the International Conference on Safety of Life at Sea, 1948, held at London from April 23 to June 10, 1948; and
Whereas
 by the act approved October 11, 1951 (ch. 495, 65 Stat. 406), the Congress of the United States of America has authorized the President of the United States of America to proclaim the said regulations, which are set forth in section 6 of the said act as amended by the act approved June 26, 1953 (Public Law 82, 83d Congress, 1st session), and to specify the effective date thereof, the regulations to have effect (after the effective date thus specified), as if enacted by statute; and
Whereas
 on October 26, 1951, the Government of the United States of America communicated to the Government of the United Kingdom, the depository nation, its acceptance of the regulations; and
Whereas
 the Government of the United States of America has been notified by the Government of the United Kingdom, as depository nation, that substantial unanimity has been reached as to the acceptance by interested countries, and that it has fixed January 1, 1954, as the date on and after which the regulations shall be applied by the Governments which have accepted them:
Now, Therefore, I, Dwight D. Eisenhower
, President of the United States of America, under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by the aforesaid act, do hereby proclaim the said Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea, 1948, as set forth in section 6 of the said act, as amended, which are attached hereto and made a part hereof, and do specify the effective date thereof as January 1, 1954.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this 15th day of August in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-eighth.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
By the President:
WALTER B. SMITH,
Acting Secretary of State
REGULATIONS FOR PREVENTING COLLISIONS AT SEA
PART A.—PRELIMINARY AND DEFINITIONS
RULE 1
(a) These Rules shall be followed by all vessels and seaplanes upon the high seas and in all waters connected therewith navigable by seagoing vessels, except as provided in Rule 30. Where, as a result of their special construction, it is not possible for seaplanes to comply fully with the provisions of Rules specifying the carrying of lights and shapes, these provisions shall be followed as closely as circumstances permit.
(b) The Rules concerning lights shall be complied with in all weathers from sunset to sunrise, and during such times no other lights shall be exhibited, except such lights as cannot be mistaken for the prescribed lights or impair their visibility or distinctive character, or interfere with the keeping of a proper look-out.
(c) In the following Rules, except where the context otherwise requires: 
(i) the word "vessel" includes every description of water craft, other than a seaplane on the water, used or capable of being used as a means of transportation on water;
(ii) the word "seaplane" includes a flying boat and any other aircraft designed to manoeuvre on the water;
(iii) the term "power-driven vessel" means any vessel propelled by machinery;
(iv) every power-driven vessel which is under sail and not under power is to be considered a sailing vessel, and every vessel under power, whether under sail or not, is to be considered a power-driven vessel;
(v) a vessel or seaplane on the water is "under way" when she is not at anchor, or made fast to the shore, or aground;
(vi) the term "height above the hull" means height above the uppermost continuous deck;
(vii) the length and breadth of a vessel shall be deemed to be the length and breadth appearing in her certificate of registry;
(viii) the length and span of a seaplane shall be its maximum length and span as shown in its certificate of airworthiness, or as determined by measurement in the absence of such certificate;
(ix) the word "visible," when applied to lights, means visible on a dark night with a clear atmosphere;
(x) the term "short blast" means a blast of about one second's duration;
(xi) the term "prolonged blast" means a blast of from four to six seconds' duration;
(xii) the word "whistle" means whistle or siren;
(xiii) the word "tons" means gross tons.
PART B.—LIGHTS AND SHAPES
RULE 2
(a) A power-driven vessel when under way shall carry:—
(I) On or in front of the foremast, or if a vessel without a foremast then in the forepart of the vessel, a bright white light so constructed as to show an unbroken light over an arc of the horizon of 20 points of the compass (225 degrees), so fixed as to show the light 10 points (1121/2 degrees) on each side of the vessel, that is, from right ahead to 2 points (221/2 degrees) abaft the beam on either side, and of such a character as to be visible at a distance of at least 5 miles.
(ii) Either forward of or abaft the white light mentioned in subsection (1) a second white light similar in construction and character to that light. Vessels of less than 150 feet in length, and vessels engaged in towing, shall not be required to carry this second white light but may do so.
(iii) These two white lights shall be so placed in a line with and over the keel that one shall be at least 15 feet higher than the other and in such a position that the lower light shall be forward of the upper one. The horizontal distance between the two white lights shall be at least three times the vertical distance. The lower of these two white lights or, if only one is carried, then that light, shall be placed at a height above the hull of not less than 20 feet, and, if the breadth of the vessel exceeds 20 feet, then at a height above the hull not less than such breadth, so however that the light need not be placed at a greater height above the hull than 40 feet. In all circumstances the light or lights, as the case may be, shall be so placed as to be clear of and above all other lights and obstructing superstructures.
(iv) On the starboard side a green light so constructed as to show an unbroken light over an arc of the horizon of 10 points of the compass (1121/2 degrees), so fixed as to show the light from right ahead to 2 points (22 1/2 degrees) abaft the beam on the starboard side, and of such a character as to be visible at a distance of at least 2 miles.
(v) On the port side a red light so constructed as to show an unbroken light over an arc of the horizon of 10 points of the compass (112 1/2 degrees), so fixed as to show the light from right ahead to 2 points (22 1/2 degrees) abaft the beam on the port side, and of such a character as to be visible at a distance of at least 2 miles.
(vi) The said green and red sidelights shall be fitted with inboard screens projecting at least 3 feet forward from the light, so as to prevent these lights from being seen across the bows.
(b) A seaplane under way on the water shall carry:—
(i) In the forepart amidships where it can best be seen a bright white light, so constructed as to show an unbroken light over an arc of the horizon of 220 degrees of the compass, so fixed as to show the light 110 degrees on each side of the seaplane, namely, from right ahead to 20 degrees abaft the beam on either side, and of such a character as to be visible at a distance of at least 3 miles.
(ii) On the right or starboard wing tip a green light, so constructed as to show an unbroken light over an arc of the horizon of 110 degrees of the compass, so fixed as to show the light from right ahead to 20 degrees abaft the beam on the starboard side, and of such a character as to be visible at a distance of at least 2 miles.
(iii) On the left or port wing tip a red light, so constructed as to show an unbroken light over an arc of the horizon of 110 degrees of the compass, so fixed as to show the light from right ahead to 20 degrees abaft the beam on the port side, and of such a character as to be visible at a distance of at least 2 miles.
RULE 3
(a) A power-driven vessel when towing or pushing another vessel or seaplane shall, in addition to her sidelights, carry two bright white lights in a vertical line one over the other, not less than 6 feet apart, and when towing more than one vessel shall carry an additional bright white light 6 feet above or below such lights, if the length of the tow, measuring from the stern of the towing vessel to the stern of the last vessel or seaplane towed, exceeds 600 feet. Each of these lights shall be of the same construction and character and one of them shall be carried in the same position as the white light mentioned in Rule 2 (a) (1), except the additional light, which shall be carried at a height of not less than 14 feet above the hull. In a vessel with a single mast, such lights may be carried on the mast.
(b) The towing vessel shall also show either the stern light specified in Rule 10 or in lieu of that light a small white light abaft the funnel or aftermast for the tow to steer by, but such light shall not be visible forward of the beam. The carriage of the white light specified in Rule 2 (a) (ii) is optional.
(c) A seaplane on the water, when towing one or more seaplanes or vessels, shall carry the lights prescribed in Rule 2 (b) (1), (ii) and (iii); and, in addition, she shall carry a second white light of the same construction and character as the white light mentioned in Rule 2 (b) (1), and in a vertical line at least 6 feet above or below such light.
RULE 4
(a) A vessel which is not under command shall carry, where they can best be seen, and, if a power-driven vessel, in lieu of the lights required by Rule 2 (a) (1) and (ii), two red lights in a vertical line one over the other not less than 6 feet apart, and of such a character as to be visible all round the horizon at a distance of at least 2 miles. By day, she shall carry in a vertical line one over the other not less than 6 feet apart, where they can best be seen, two black balls or shapes each not less than 2 feet in diameter.
(b) A seaplane on the water which is not under command may carry, where they can best be seen, two red lights in a vertical line, one over the other, not less than 3 feet apart, and of such a character as to be visible all round the horizon at a distance of at least 2 miles, and may by day carry in a vertical line one over the other not less than 3 feet apart, where they can best be seen, two black balls or shapes, each not less than 2 feet in diameter.
(c) A vessel engaged in laying or in picking up a submarine cable or navigation mark, or a vessel engaged in surveying or underwater operations when from the nature of her work she is unable to get out of the way of approaching vessels, shall carry, in lieu of the lights specified in Rule 2 (a) (i) and (ii), three lights in a vertical line one over the other not less than 6 feet apart. The highest and lowest of these lights shall be red, and the middle light shall be white, and they shall be of such character as to be visible all round the horizon at a distance of at least 2 miles. By day, she shall carry in a vertical line one over the other not less than 6 feet apart, where they can best be seen, three shapes each not less than 2 feet in diameter, of which the highest and lowest shall be globular in shape and red in colour, and the middle one diamond in shape and white.
(d) The vessels and seaplanes referred to in this Rule, when not making way through the water, shall not carry the coloured side-lights, but when making way they shall carry them.
(e) The lights and shapes required to be shown by this Rule are to be taken by other vessels and seaplanes as signals that the vessel or seaplane showing them is not under command and cannot therefore get out of the way.
(f) These signals are not signals of vessels in distress and requiring assistance. Such signals are contained in Rule 31.
RULE 5
(a) A sailing vessel under way and any vessel or seaplane being towed shall carry the same lights as are prescribed by Rule 2 for a power-driven vessel or a seaplane under way, respectively, with the exception of the white lights specified therein, which they shall never carry. They shall also carry stern lights as specified in Rule 10, provided that vessels towed, except the last vessel of a tow, may carry, in lieu of such stern light, a small white light as specified in Rule 3 (b).
(b) A vessel being pushed ahead shall carry, at the forward end, on the starboard side a green light and on the port side a red light, which shall have the same characteristics as the lights described in Rule 2 (a) (iv) and (v) and shall be screened as provided in Rule 2 (a) (vi), provided that any number of vessels pushed ahead in a group shall be lighted as one vessel.
RULE 6
(a) In small vessels, when it is not possible on account of bad weather or other sufficient cause to fix the green and red sidelights, these lights shall be kept at hand lighted and 'ready for immediate use, and shall, on the approach of or to other vessels, be exhibited on their respective sides in sufficient time to prevent collision, in such manner as to make them most visible, and so that the green light shall not be seen on the port side nor the red light on the starboard side, nor, if practicable, more than 2 points (22 1/2 degrees) abaft the beam on their respective sides.
(b) To make the use of these portable lights more certain and easy, the lanterns containing them shall each be painted outside with the colour of the lights they respectively contain, and shall be provided with proper screens.
RULE 7
Power-driven vessels of less than 40 tons, vessels under oars or sails of less than 20 tons, and rowing boats, when under way shall not be required to carry the lights mentioned in Rule 2, but if they do not carry them they shall be provided with the following lights:—
(a) Power-driven vessels of less than 40 tons, except as provided in section (b), shall carry:—
(1) In the forepart of the vessel, where it can best be seen, and at a height above the gunwale of not less than 9 feet, a bright white light constructed and fixed as prescribed in Rule 2 (a) (1) and of such a character as to be visible at a distance of at least 3 miles.
(ii) Green and red sidelights constructed and fixed as prescribed in Rule 2 (a) (iv) and
(v), and of such a character as to be visible at a distance of at least 1 mile, or a combined lantern showing a green light and a red light from right ahead to 2 points (221/2 degrees) abaft the beam on their respective sides. Such lantern shall be carried not less than 3 feet below the white light.
(b) Small power-driven boats, such as are carried by seagoing vessels, may carry the white light at a less height than 9 feet above the gunwale, but it shall be carried above the sidelights or the combined lantern mentioned in subsection (a) (ii).
(c) Vessels of less than 20 tons, under oars or sails, except as provided in section (d), shall, if they do not carry the sidelights, carry where it can best be seen a lantern showing a green light on one side and a red light on the other, of such a character as to be visible at a distance of at least 1 mile, and so fixed that the green light shall not be seen on the port side, nor the red light on the starboard side. Where it is not possible to fix this light, it shall be kept ready for immediate use and shall be exhibited in sufficient time to prevent collision and so that the green light shall not be seen on the port side nor the red light on the starboard side.
(d) Small rowing boats, whether under oars or sail, shall only be required to have ready at hand an electric torch or a lighted lantern showing a white light which shall be exhibited in sufficient time to prevent collision.
(e) The vessels and boats referred to in this Rule shall not be required to carry the lights or shapes prescribed in Rules 4 (a) and 11 (e).
RULE 8
(a) (i) Sailing pilot-vessels, when engaged on their station on pilotage duty and not at anchor, shall not show the lights prescribed for other vessels, but shall carry a white light at the masthead visible all round the horizon at a distance of at least 3 miles, and shall also exhibit a flare-up light or flare-up lights at short intervals, which shall never exceed 10 minutes.
(ii) On the near approach of or to other vessels they shall have their sidelights lighted ready for use and shall flash or show them at short intervals, to indicate the direction in which they are heading, but the green light shall not be shown on the port side, nor the red light on the starboard side.
(iii) A sailing pilot-vessel of such a class as to be obliged to go alongside of a vessel to put a pilot on board may show the white light instead of carrying it at the masthead and may, instead of the sidelights above mentioned, have at hand ready for use a lantern with a green glass on the one side and a red glass on the other to be used as prescribed above.
(b) A power-driven pilot-vessel when engaged on her station on pilotage duty and not at anchor shall, in addition to the lights and flares required for sailing pilot-vessels, carry at a distance of 8 feet below her white masthead light a red light visible all around the horizon at a distance of at least 3 miles, and also the sidelights required to be carried by vessels when under way. A bright intermittent all round white light may be used in place of a flare.
(c) All pilot-vessels, when engaged on their stations on pilotage duty and at anchor shall carry the lights and show the flares prescribed in sections (a) and (b), except that the sidelights shall not be shown. They shall also carry the anchor light or lights prescribed in Rule 11.
(d) All pilot-vessels, whether at anchor or not at anchor, shall, when not engaged on their stations on pilotage duty, carry the same lights as other vessels of their class and tonnage.
RULE 9
(a) Fishing vessels when not fishing shall show the lights or shapes prescribed for similar vessels of their tonnage. When fishing they shall show only the lights or shapes prescribed by this Rule, which lights or shapes, except as otherwise provided, shall be visible at a distance of at least 2 miles.
(b) Vessels fishing with trolling (towing) lines, shall show only the lights prescribed for a power-driven or sailing vessel under way as may be appropriate.
(c) Vessels fishing with nets or lines, except trolling (towing) lines, extending from the vessel not more than 500 feet horizontally into the seaway shall show, where it can best be seen, one all round white light and in addition, on approaching or being approached by another vessel, shall show a second white light at least 6 feet below the first light and at a horizontal distance of at least 10 feet away from it (6 feet In small open boats) in the direction in which the outlying gear is attached. By day such vessels shall indicate their occupation by displaying a basket where it can best be seen: and if they have their gear out while at anchor, they shall, on the approach of other vessels, show the same signal in the direction from the anchor ball towards the net or gear.
(d) Vessels fishing with nets or lines. except trolling (towing) lines, extending from the vessel more than 500 feet horizontally into the seaway shall show, where they can best be seen, three white lights at least 3 feet apart in a vertical triangle visible all around the horizon. When making way through the water, such vessels shall show the proper coloured sidelights but when not making way they shall not show them. By day they shall show a basket in the forepart of the vessel as near the stem as possible not less than 10 feet above the rail; and, in addition, where it can best be seen, one black conical shape, apex upwards. If they have their gear out while at anchor they shall, on the approach of other vessels, show the basket in the direction from the anchor ball towards the net or gear.
(e) Vessels when engaged in trawling, by which is meant the dragging of a dredge net or other apparatus along or near the bottom of the sea, and not at anchor:—
(I) If power-driven vessels, shall carry in the same position as the white light mentioned in Rule 2 (a) (i) a tri-coloured lantern, so constructed and fixed as to show a white light from right ahead to 2 points (221/2 degrees) on each bow, and a green light and a red light over an arc of the horizon from 2 points (221/2 degrees) on each bow to 2 points (221/2 degrees) abaft the beam on the starboard and port sides, respectively: and not less than 6 nor more than 12 feet below the tri-coloured lantern a white light in a lantern, so constructed as to show a clear, uniform, and unbroken light all round the horizon. They shall also show the stern light specified in Rule 10 (a).
(ii) If sailing vessels, shall carry a white light in a lantern so constructed as to show a clear, uniform, and unbroken light all round the horizon, and shall also, on the approach of or to other vessels show, where it can best be seen, a white flare-up light in sufficient time to prevent collision.
(iii) By day, each of the foregoing vessels shall show, where it can be best be seen, a basket.
(f) In addition to the lights which they are by this Rule required to show vessels fishing may, if necessary in order to attract attention of approaching vessels, show a flare-up light. They may also use working lights.
(g) Every vessel fishing, when at anchor, shall show the lights or shape specified in Rule 11 (a), (b) or (c); and shall, on the approach of another vessel or vessels, show an additional white light at least 6 feet below the forward anchor light and at a horizontal distance of at least 10 feet away from it In the direction of the outlying gear.
(h) If a vessel when fishing becomes fast by her gear to a rock or other obstruction she shall in daytime haul down the basket required by sections (c), (d) or (e) and show the signal specified in Rule 11 (c). By night she shall show the light or lights specified in Rule 11 (a) or (b). In fog, mist, falling snow, heavy rainstorms or any other condition similarly restricting visibility, whether by day or by night, she shall sound the signal prescribed by Rule 15 (c) (v), which signal shall also be used, on the near approach of another vessel, in good visibility.
NOTE.—For fog signals for fishing vessels, see Rule 15 (c) (ix).
RULE 10
(a) A vessel when under way shall carry at her stern a white light, so constructed that it shall show an unbroken light over an arc of the horizon of 12 points of the compass (135 degrees), so fixed as to show the light 6 points (671/2 degrees) from right aft on each side of the vessel, and of such a character as to be visible at a distance of at least 2 miles. Such light shall be carried as nearly as practicable on the same level as the sidelights.
NOTE.—For vessels engaged in towing or being towed, see Rules 3 (b) and 5.
(b) In a small vessel, if it is not possible on account of bad weather or other sufficient cause for this light to be fixed, an electric torch or a lighted lantern shall be kept at hand ready for use and shall, on the approach of an overtaking vessel, be shown in sufficient time to prevent collision.
(c) A seaplane on the water when under way shall carry on her tail a white light, so constructed as to show an unbroken light over an arc of the horizon of 140 degrees of the compass, so fixed as to show the light 70 degrees from right aft on each side of the seaplane, and of such a character as to be visible at a distance of at least 2 miles.
RULE 11
(a) A vessel under 150 feet in length when at anchor, shall carry in the forepart of the vessel, where it can best be seen, a white light in a lantern so constructed as to show a clear, uniform, and unbroken light visible all round the horizon at a distance of at least 2 miles.
(b) A vessel of 150 feet or upwards in length, when at anchor, shall carry in the forepart of the vessel, at a height of not less than 20 feet above the hull, one such light, and at or near the stern of the vessel and at such a height that it shall be not less than 16 feet lower than the forward light, another such light. Both these lights shall be visible all round the horizon at a distance of at least 3 miles.
(c) Between sunrise and sunset every vessel when at anchor shall carry in the forepart of the vessel, where it can best be seen, one black ball not less than 2 feet in diameter.
(d) A vessel engaged in laying or in picking up a submarine cable or navigation mark, or a vessel engaged in surveying or underwater operations, when at anchor, shall carry the lights or shapes prescribed in Rule 4 (c) in addition to those prescribed in the appropriate preceding sections of this Rule.
(e) A vessel aground shall carry by night the light or lights prescribed in sections (a) or (b) and the two red lights prescribed in Rule 4 (a). By day she shall carry, where they can best be seen. three black balls. each not less than 2 feet in diameter, placed in a vertical line one over the other, not less than 6 feet apart.
(f) A seaplane on the water under 150 feet in length, when at anchor, shall carry, where it can best be seen, a white light, visible all round the horizon at a distance of at least 2 miles.
(g) A seaplane on the water 150 feet or upwards in length, when at anchor, shall carry, where they can best be seen, a white light forward and a white light aft, both lights visible all round the horizon at a distance of at least 3 miles; and, in addition, if the seaplane is more than 160 feet in span, a white light on each side to indicate the maximum span, and visible, so far as practicable, all round the horizon at a distance of 1 mile.
(h) A seaplane aground shall carry an anchor light or lights as prescribed in sections (f) and (g), and in addition may carry two red lights in a vertical line, at least 3 feet apart, so placed as to be visible all round the horizon.
RULE 12
Every vessel or seaplane on the water may, if necessary in order to attract attention, in addition to the lights which she is by these Rules required to carry, show a flare-up light or use a detonating or other efficient sound signal that cannot be mistaken for any signal authorized elsewhere under these Rules.
RULE 13
(a) Nothing in these Rules shall interfere with the operation of any special rules made by the Government of any nation with respect to additional station and signal lights for ships of war, for vessels sailing under convoy, or for seaplanes on the water; or with the exhibition of recognition signals adopted by shipowners, which have been authorized by their respective Governments and duly registered and published.
(b) Whenever the Government concerned shall have determined that a naval or other military vessel or water-borne seaplane of special construction or purpose cannot comply fully with the provisions of any of these Rules with respect to the number, position, range or arc of visibility of lights or shapes, without interfering with the military function of the vessel or seaplane, such vessel or seaplane shall comply with such other provisions in regard to the number, position, range or arc of visibility of lights or shapes as her Government shall have determined to be the closest possible compliance with these Rules in respect of that vessel or seaplane.
RULE 14
A vessel proceeding under sail, when also being propelled by machinery, shall carry in the daytime forward, where it can best be seen, one black conical shape, point upwards, not less than 2 feet in diameter at its base.
RULE 15
(a) A power-driven vessel shall be provided with an efficient whistle, sounded by steam or by some substitute for steam, so placed that the sound may not be intercepted by any obstruction, and with an efficient fog-horn, to be sounded by mechanical means, and also with an efficient bell. A sailing vessel of 20 tons or upwards shall be provided with a similar fog-horn and bell.
(b) All signals prescribed by this Rule for vessels under way shall be given:—
(1) by power-driven vessels on the whistle;
(ii) by sailing vessels on the fog-horn;
(iii) by vessels towed on the whistle or fog-horn.
(c) In fog, mist, falling snow, heavy rainstorms, or any other condition similarly restricting visibility, whether by day or night, the signals prescribed in this Rule shall be used as follows:—
(1) A power-driven vessel making way through the water, shall sound at intervals of not more than 2 minutes a prolonged blast.
(ii) A power-driven vessel under way, but stopped and making no way through the water, shall sound at intervals of not more than 2 minutes two prolonged blasts, with an interval of about 1 second between them.
(iii) A sailing vessel under way shall sound, at intervals of not more than 1 minute, when on the starboard tack one blast, when on the port tack two blasts in succession, and when with the wind abaft the beam three blasts in succession.
(iv) A vessel when at anchor shall at intervals of not more than 1 minute ring the bell rapidly for about 5 seconds. In vessels of more than 350 feet in length the bell shall be sounded in the forepart of the vessel, and in addition there shall be sounded in the after part of the vessel, at intervals of not more than 1 minute for about 5 seconds, a gong or other instrument, the tone and sounding of which cannot be confused with that of the bell. Every vessel at anchor may in addition, in accordance with Rule 12, sound three blasts in succession, namely, one short, one prolonged, and one short blast, to give warning of her position and of the possibility of collision to an approaching vessel.
(v) A vessel when towing, a vessel engaged in laying or in picking up a submarine cable or navigation mark, and a vessel under way which is unable to get out of the way of an approaching vessel through being not under command or unable to manoeuvre as required by these Rules shall, instead of the signals prescribed in subsections (i), (ii) and (111) sound, at intervals of not more than 1 minute, three blasts in succession, namely, one prolonged blast followed by two short blasts.
(vi) A vessel towed, or, if more than one vessel is towed, only the last vessel of the tow, if manned, shall, at intervals of not more than 1 minute, sound four blasts in succession, namely, one prolonged blast followed by three short blasts. When practicable, this signal shall be made immediately after the signal made by the towing vessel.
(vii) A vessel aground shall give the signal prescribed in sub-section (iv) and shall, in addition, give three separate and distinct strokes on the bell immediately before and after each such signal.
(viii) A vessel of less than 20 tons, a rowing boat, or a seaplane on the water, shall not be obliged to give the above-mentioned signals, but if she does not, she shall make some other efficient sound signal at intervals of not more than 1 minute.
(ix) A vessel when fishing, if of 20 tons or upwards, shall at intervals of not more than 1 minute, sound a blast, such blast to be followed by ringing the bell; or she may sound, in lieu of these signals, a blast consisting of a series of several alternate notes of higher and lower pitch.
RULE 16
Speed to be moderate in fog, &c.
(a) Every vessel, or seaplane when taxiing on the water, shall, in fog, mist, falling snow, heavy rainstorms or any other condition similarly restricting visibility, go at a moderate speed, having careful regard to the existing circumstances and conditions.
(b) A power-driven vessel hearing, apparently forward of her beam, the fog-signal of a vessel the position of which is not ascertained, shall, so far as the circumstances of the case admit, stop her engines, and then navigate with caution until danger of collision is over.
PART C.—STEERING AND SAILING RULES PRELIMINARY
1. In obeying and construing these Rules, any action taken should be positive, in ample time, and with due regard to the observance of good seamanship.
2. Risk of collision can, when circumstances permit, be ascertained by carefully watching the compass bearing of an approaching vessel. If the bearing does not appreciably change, such risk should be deemed to exist.
3. Mariners should bear in mind that sea-planes in the act of landing or taking off, or operating under adverse weather conditions, may be unable to change their intended action at the last moment.
RULE 17
When two sailing vessels are approaching one another, so as to involve risk of collision, one of them shall keep out of the way of the other, as follows:—
(a) A vessel which is running free shall keep out of the way of a vessel which is close-hauled.
(b) A vessel which is close-hauled on the port tack shall keep out of the way of a vessel which is close-hauled on the starboard tack.
(c) When both are running free, with the wind on different sides, the vessel which has the wind on the port side shall keep out of the way of the other.
(d) When both are running free, with the wind on the same side, the vessel which is to windward shall keep out of the way of the vessel which is to leeward.
(e) A vessel which has the wind aft shall keep out of the way of the other vessel.
RULE 18
(a) When two power-driven vessels are meeting end on, or nearly end or, so as to involve risk of collision, each shall alter her course to starboard, so that each may pass on the port side of the other. This Rule only applies to cases where vessels are meeting end on, or nearly end on, in such a manner as to involve risk of collision, and does not apply to two vessels which must, if both keep on their respective courses, pass clear of each other. The only cases to which it does apply are when each of two vessels is end on, or nearly end on, to the other; in other words, to cases in which, by day, each vessel sees the masts of the other in a line, or nearly in a line, with her own; and by night, to cases in which each vessel is in such a position as to see both the sidelights of the other. It does not apply, by day, to cases in which a vessel sees another ahead crossing her own course; or, by night, to cases where the red light of one vessel is opposed to the red light of the other or where the green light of one vessel is opposed to the green light of the other or where a red light without a green light or a green light without a red light is seen ahead, or where both green and red lights are seen anywhere but ahead.
(b) For the purposes of this Rule and Rules 19 to 29 inclusive, except Rule 20 (b), a seaplane on the water shall be deemed to be a vessel, and the expression "power-driven vessel" shall be construed accordingly.
RULE 19
When two power-driven vessels are crossing, so as to involve risk of collision, the vessel which has the other on her own starboard side shall keep out of the way of the other.
RULE 20
(a) When a power-driven vessel and a sailing vessel are proceeding in such directions as to involve risk of collision, except as provided in Rules 24 and 26, the power-driven vessel shall keep out of the way of the sailing vessel.
(b) A seaplane on the water shall, in general, keep well clear of all vessels and avoid impeding their navigation. In circumstances, however, where risk of collision exists, she shall comply with these Rules.
RULE 21
Where by any of these Rules one of two vessels is to keep out of the way, the other shall keep her course and speed. When, from any cause, the latter vessel finds herself so close that collision cannot be avoided by the action of the giving-way vessel alone, she also shall take such action as will best aid to avert collision (see Rules 27 and 29).
RULE 22
Every vessel which is directed by these Rules to keep out of the way of another vessel shall, if the circumstances of the case admit, avoid crossing ahead of the other.
RULE 23
Every power-driven vessel which is directed by these Rules to keep out of the way of another vessel shall, on approaching her, if necessary, slacken her speed or stop or reverse.
RULE 24
(a) Notwithstanding anything contained in these Rules, every vessel overtaking any other shall keep out of the way of the overtaken vessel.
(b) Every vessel coming up with another vessel from any direction more than 2 points (221/2 degrees) abaft her beam, i. e. in such a position, with reference to the vessel which she is overtaking, that at night she would be unable to see either of that vessel's side-lights, shall be deemed to be an overtaking vessel; and no subsequent alteration of the bearing between the two vessels shall make the overtaking vessel a crossing vessel within the meaning of these Rules, or relieve her of the duty of keeping clear of the overtaken vessel until she is finally past and clear.
(c) If the overtaking vessel cannot determine with certainty whether she is forward of or abaft this direction from the other vessel, she shall assume that she is an overtaking vessel and keep out of the way.
RULE 25
(a) In a narrow channel every power-driven vessel when proceeding along the course of the channel shall, when it is safe and practicable, keep to that side of the fairway or mid-channel which lies on the starboard side of such vessel.
(b) Whenever a power-driven vessel is nearing a bend in a channel where a power-driven vessel approaching from the other direction cannot be seen, such vessel, when she shall have arrived within one-half mile of the bend, shall give a signal by one prolonged blast of her whistle, which signal shall be answered by a similar blast given by any approaching power-driven vessel that may be within hearing around the bend. Regardless of whether an approaching vessel on the farther side of the bend is heard, such bend shall be rounded with alertness and caution.
RULE 26
All vessels not engaged in fishing shall, when under way, keep out of the way of any vessels fishing with nets or lines or trawls. This Rule shall not give to any vessel engaged in fishing the right of obstructing a fairway used by vessels other than fishing vessels.
RULE 27
In obeying and construing these Rules due regard shall be had to all dangers of navigation and collision, and to any special circumstances, including the limitations of the craft involved, which may render a departure from the above Rules necessary in order to avoid immediate danger.
PART D.—MISCELLANEOUS
RULE 28
(a) When vessels are in sight of one another, a power-driven vessel under way, in taking any course authorized or required by these Rules, shall indicate that course by the following signals on her whistle, namely:—
One short blast to mean "I am altering my course to starboard."
Two short blasts to mean "I am altering my course to port."
Three short blasts to mean "My engines are going astern."
(b) Whenever a power-driven vessel which, under these Rules, is to keep her course and speed, is in sight of another vessel and is in doubt whether sufficient action is being taken by the other vessel to avert collision, she may indicate such doubt by giving at least five short and rapid blasts on the whistle. The giving of such a signal shall not relieve a vessel of her obligations under Rules 27 and 29 or any other Rule, or of her duty to indicate any action taken under these Rules by giving the appropriate sound signals laid down in this Rule.
(c) Nothing in these Rules shall interfere with the operation of any special rules made by the Government of any nation with respect to the use of additional whistle signals between ships of war or vessels sailing under convoy.
RULE 29
Nothing in these Rules shall exonerate any vessel, or the owner, master or crew thereof, from the consequences of any neglect to carry lights or signals, or of any neglect to keep a proper look-out, or of the neglect of any precaution which may be required by the ordinary practice of seamen, or by the special circumstances of the case.
RULE 30
Reservation of Rules for Harbours and Inland Navigation
Nothing in these Rules shall interfere with the operation of a special rule duly made by local authority relative to the navigation of any harbour, river, lake, or inland water, including a reserved seaplane area.
RULE 31
Distress Signals
When a vessel or seaplane on the water is in distress and requires assistance from other vessels or from the shore, the following shall be the signals to be used or displayed by her, either together or separately, namely:—
(a) A gun or other explosive signal fired at intervals of about a minute.
(b) A continuous sounding with any fog-signal apparatus.
(c) Rockets or shells, throwing red stars fired one at a time at short intervals.
(d) A signal made by radiotelegraphy or by any other signalling method consisting of the group, in the Morse Code.
(e) A signal sent by radiotelephony consisting of the spoken word "Mayday."
(f) The International Code Signal of distress indicated by N. C.
(g) A signal consisting of a square flag having above or below it a ball or anything resembling a ball.
(h) Flames on the vessel (as from a burning tar barrel, oil barrel, &c.).
(1) A rocket parachute flare showing a red light.
The use of any of the above signals, except for the purpose of indicating that a vessel or a seaplane is in distress, and the use of any signals which may be confused with any of the above signals, is prohibited.
Note.—A radio signal has been provided for use by vessels in distress for the purpose of actuating the auto-alarms of other vessels and thus securing attention to distress calls or messages. The signal consists of a series of twelve dashes, sent in 1 minute, the duration of each dash being 4 seconds, and the duration of the interval between two consecutive dashes 1 second.
RULE 32
All orders to helmsmen shall be given in the following sense: right rudder or starboard to mean "put the vessel's rudder to starboard"; left rudder or port to mean "put the vessel's rudder to port."