By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Mutual Security Act of 1954 (68 Stat. 832), by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States and Commander in Chief of the armed forces of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
PART I. ASSIGNMENT OF FUNCTIONS AND FUNDS
SECTION 101. Foreign Operations Administration. (a) Exclusive of the functions otherwise delegated, or excluded from delegation, by this order, and subject to the provisions of this order, there are hereby delegated to the Director of the Foreign Operations Administration all functions conferred upon the President by the Mutual Security Act of 1954 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) and by the Mutual Defense Assistance Control Act of 1951 (65 Stat. 644; 22 U.S.C. 1611-1613c).
(b) Subject to sections 103 and 107 (b) of this order, the Director of the Foreign Operations Administration shall administer sections 402, 505, and 201 of the Act. In determining upon the furnishing of assistance on terms of repayment pursuant to sections 201 (a) and 505 of the Act, and upon the amounts and terms of such assistance, the Director of the Foreign Operations Administration shall consult with the National Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial Problems in respect of policies relating to such assistance and terms. Whenever assistance on terms of repayment, under the said section 505, involves funds available under chapter 1 of Title I of the Act, the said Director shall consult with the Secretary of Defense with respect to the amounts and terms of such assistance. The Director of the Foreign Operations Administration shall also consult the said Council with respect to policies concerning the utilization of funds in the Special Account provided for in section 142 (11) of the Act and concerning such other matters as are within the cognizance of the Council pursuant to section 4 of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act.
(c) Pursuant to section 527 (c) (2) of the Act, it is directed that the authority made available to the Director of the United States Information Agency with respect to his functions by section 2 of Executive Order No. 104771 of August 1, 1953 (18 F. R. 4540), and by Executive Order No. 10522 2 of March 26, 1954 (19 F. R. 1689), subject to the provisions of law applicable in connection with such authority, may be utilized by the Director of the Foreign Operations Administration with respect to his functions.
(d) It is hereby directed that the Office of Small Business provided for in section 504 (b) of the Act shall be in the Foreign Operations Administration.
SEC. 102. Department of Defense. (a) Subject to the provisions of this order, there are hereby delegated to the Secretary of Defense:
(1) The functions conferred upon the President by chapter 1 of Title I of the Act, exclusive of (i) those so conferred by section 105 (b) (3) of the Act, (U) so much of those so conferred by section 106 (b) of the Act as consists of determining that a nation or international organization may make available the fair value of equipment, materials, or services, sold thereto or rendered therefor, at a time or at times other than in advance of delivery of the equipment, materials, or services, and (iii) the functions reserved to the President by section 107 of this order.
(2) The functions conferred upon the President by sections 142 (7) and 511 (c) of the Act.
(3) So much of the functions conferred upon the President by sections 142 (10), 511 (b), 527 (a), 528, and 529 (a) of the Act as relates to other functions under the Act administered by the Department of Defense.
(b) The Secretary of Defense is hereby designated to make, with respect to equipment or materials procured for military assistance, the determinations provided for in section 107 of the Mutual Security Appropriation Act, 1955 (68 Stat. 1224).
(c) The Secretary of Defense (1) shall exercise the responsibility and authority vested in him by the Act and the responsibility and authority delegated to him by this order subject to coordination by the Director of the Foreign Operations Administration, and (2) shall keep the Director of the Foreign Operations Administration fully and currently informed of all matters, including prospective action, relating to the utilization of funds under the Act, the establishment of priorities under section 524 (b) of the Act, and the furnishing of military items under chapter 1 of Title I of the Act.
SEC. 103. Department of State. (a) There are hereby delegated to the Secretary of State:
(1) The functions conferred upon the President by the laws referred to in section 101 (a) of this order with respect to negotiating and entering into international agreements.
(2) The functions conferred upon the President by sections 105 (b) (3), 405 (a), 413 (b) (2) and (3), and 529 (b) and (C) of the Act.
(3) The functions conferred upon the President by section 504 (a) (2) of the Act so far as they may relate to countries in which the Foreign Operations Administration does not have missions or employees.
(4) So much of the functions conferred upon the President by section 535 (a) of the Act as consists of requesting the cooperation of the United Nations, its organs, and specialized agencies or other international organizations in carrying out the purposes of the Act.
(b) The functions conferred upon the President by section 414 of the Act are hereby delegated to the Secretary of State. In connection with the carrying out of the said functions the Secretary of State shall consult with appropriate agencies of the Government. The designation by the Secretary of State of articles which shall be considered as arms, ammunition, and implements of war, including technical data relating thereto, under the said section 414 shall require the concurrence of the Secretary of Defense.
(c) The Secretary of State shall be responsible (1) for making the United States contributions under the Act to, and formulating and presenting with the assistance of the Director of the Foreign Operations Administration the policy of the United States with respect to the assistance programs of, the international organizations referred to in sections 132 (c), 306, 405 (a) and (c), 406, and 407 of the Act, and (2) for making the United States contribution under section 408 of the Act to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization for the United States share of the expenses of the Organization.
(d) All functions under the Act and the other statutes referred to in sections 101 (a), 102 (b), and 105 (a) of this order, however vested, delegated, or assigned, shall be subject to the responsibilities of the Secretary of State with respect to the foreign policy of the United States.
(e) The maintenance of special missions or staffs abroad, the fixing of the ranks of the chiefs thereof after the chiefs of the United States diplomatic missions, and the authorization of the same compensation and allowances as the chief of mission, Class 3 or Class 4, within the meaning of the Foreign Service Act of 1946 (22 U.S.C. 801 et seq.), all under section 526 of the Act, shall require the approval of the Secretary of State.
SEC. 104. Department of Commerce. (a) There is hereby delegated to the Secretary of Commerce so much of the functions conferred upon the President by section 413 (b) (1) of the Act as consists of drawing the attention of private enterprise to opportunities for investment and development in other free nations.
(b) The Secretary of Commerce is hereby designated as the officer through whom shall be carried out the functions provided for in section 416 of the Act.
SEC. 105. United States Information Agency. (a) The functions conferred upon the President by section 1011 of the United States Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948 (62 Stat. 6), as amended, are hereby delegated to the Director of the United States Information Agency and shall be carried out in consultation with the Director of the Foreign Operations Administration.
(b) The United States Information Agency shall perform the functions provided for by law with respect to publicizing abroad the activities carried out under the Act.
SEC. 106. Allocation of funds. (a) Funds appropriated or otherwise made available to the President shall be deemed to be allocated without any further action of the President as follows:
(1) Funds for carrying out chapter 1 of Title I of the Act are allocated to the Secretary of Defense, but, for the purposes of the second sentence of section 110 of the Mutual Security Appropriation Act, 1955 (68 Stat. 1224), such funds shall be available only when and in such amounts as they have been apportioned, for use, by the Bureau of the Budget.
(2) All funds for carrying out the Act except those for carrying out chapter 1 of Title I of the Act are allocated to the Director of the Foreign Operations Administration.
(b) The said funds may be allocated by the Secretary of Defense and the Director of the Foreign Operations Administration, respectively, to any agency, department, establishment, or wholly-owned corporation of the Government for obligation or expenditure thereby consistent with applicable law, subject, however, to the provisions of section 107 (a) (2) hereof. The utilization of funds without regard to the existing laws governing the obligation and expenditure of Government funds as authorized by section 411 (b) of the Act shall be limited as far as practicable and shall in any event be confined to instances in which such utilization is deemed (1) to further the more economical, efficient, or expeditious carrying out of functions under the Act, and (2) to obviate or mitigate hardship occurring with respect to personnel administering functions under the Act in connection with the administration of these functions or with respect to the families of personnel by reason of the duties of the respective heads of families under the Act.
(c) The Director of the Foreign Operations Administration shall allocate funds to the Department of State for the contributions referred to in section 103 (c) of this order.
SEC. 107. Reservation of functions to the President. (a) There are hereby excluded from the functions delegated by the foregoing provisions of this order:
(1) The functions conferred upon the President by the Act with respect to the appointment of officers required to be appointed by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, the transmittal of periodic or special reports to the Congress, and the termination or withdrawal of assistance.
(2) The functions conferred upon the President with respect to findings, determinations, certification, agreements, directives, or transfers of funds, as the case may be, by sections 104 (b), 105, 132 (a), 141, 401, 403, 404, 410, 501, 503, 521, and 522 (b) of the Act, and by sections 103 (b), 104, 203, and 301 of the Mutual Defense Assistance Control Act of 1951.
(3) The functions conferred upon the President by sections 101, 107 (a) (2), 415, 525, 533, and 545 (d) of the Act and, subject to Part II hereof, the functions so conferred by section 523 (b) of the Act.
(4) The functions conferred upon the President by section 121 of the Act, including all of the functions so conferred with respect to waiving specific provisions of section 142 of the Act, but otherwise excluding so much of the functions conferred upon the President by the said section 121 as may relate to assistance for the support of forces and other expenditures within Indo-China and either is financed from the unexpended balances of appropriations made pursuant to sections 304 and 540 of the Mutual Security Act of 1951, as amended, or is within an obligational limitation of $150,000,000 additional to the said unexpended balances.
(5) So much of the functions conferred upon the President by section 409
(d) of the Act as may relate to funds allocated to the Department of Defense by this order.
(b) The President shall hereafter determine the portions of the sum of $350,000,000 provided for in section 402 of the Act and the portions of the sum of $200,000,000 provided for in section 505 (b) of the Act which shall be applicable to funds allocated pursuant to the Act to the Foreign Operations Administration and the Department of Defense, respectively.
PART II. PROCEDURES FOR COORDINATION ABROAD
SEC. 201. Functions of the Chief of the United States Diplomatic Mission. (a) The Chief of the United States Diplomatic Mission in each country, as the representative of the President, shall serve as the channel of authority on foreign policy and shall provide foreign policy direction to all representatives of United States agencies in such country.
(b) The Chief of the United States Diplomatic Mission in each country, as the representative of the President and acting on his behalf, shall coordinate the activities of the representatives of United States agencies (including the chiefs of economic and technical assistance missions, military assistance advisory groups, foreign information staffs, and other representatives of agencies of the United States Government) in such country engaged in carrying out programs under the Act, programs under the Mutual Defense Assistance Control Act of 1951, and the programs transferred by section 2 of Reorganization Plan No. 8 of 1953 (67 Stat. 642); and he shall assume responsibility for assuring the unified development and execution of the said programs in such country. More particularly, the functions of each Chief of United States Diplomatic Mission shall include, with respect to the programs and the country concerned, the functions of:
(1) Exercising general direction and leadership of the entire effort.
(2) Assuring that recommendations and prospective plans and actions of representatives of United States agencies are effectively coordinated and are consistent with, and in furtherance of, the established policy of the United States.
(3) Assuring that the interpretation and application of instructions received by representatives of United States agencies from higher authority are in accord with the established policy of the United States.
(4) Guiding the representatives of United States agencies in working out measures to prevent duplication in their efforts and to promote the most effective and efficient use of all United States officers and employees engaged in work on the said programs.
(5) Keeping the representatives of United States agencies fully informed as to current and prospective United States policies.
(6) Prescribing procedures governing the coordination of the activities of representatives of United States agencies, and assuring that such representatives shall have access to all available information essential to the accomplishment of their prescribed duties.
(7) Preparing and submitting such reports on the operation and status of the programs referred to in the introductory portion of this subsection as may be requested of the Secretary of State by the Secretary of Defense, the Director of the Foreign Operations Administration, or the Director of the United States Information Agency, with respect to their respective responsibilities.
(8) Recommending the withdrawal of United States personnel from the country whenever in his opinion the interests of the United States warrant such action.
(c) Each Chief of United States Diplomatic Mission shall perform his functions under this part in accordance with instructions from higher authority and subject to established policies and programs of the United States. Only the President and the Secretary of State shall communicate instructions directly to the Chief of the United States Diplomatic Mission.
(d) No Chief of United States Diplomatic Mission shall delegate any function conferred upon him by the provisions of this Part which directly involves the exercise of direction, coordination, or authority.
SEC. 202. Referral of unresolved matters. The Chief of the United States Diplomatic Mission in each country shall initiate steps to reconcile any divergent views arising between representatives of United States agencies in the country concerned with respect to programs referred to in the introductory portion of section 201 (b) of this order. If agreement cannot be reached the Chief of the United States Diplomatic Mission shall recommend a course of action, and such course of action shall be followed unless a representative of a United States agency requests that the issue be referred to the Secretary of State and the United States agencies concerned for decision. If such a request is made, the parties concerned shall promptly refer the issue for resolution prior to taking action at the country level.
SEC. 203. Further coordination procedures and relationships. (a) All representatives of United States agencies in each country shall be subject to the responsibilities imposed upon the Chief of the United States Diplomatic Mission in such country by section 523 (b) of the Act and by this part.
(b) Subject to compliance with the provisions of this part and with the prescribed procedures of their respective agencies, all representatives of United States agencies affected by this part (1) shall have direct communication with their respective agencies and with such other parties and in such manner as may be authorized by their respective agencies, (2) shall keep the respective Chiefs of United States Diplomatic Missions and each other fully and currently informed on all matters, including prospective plans, recommendations, and actions, relating to the programs referred to in the introductory portion of section 201 (b) of this order, and (3) shall furnish to the respective Chiefs of United States Diplomatic Missions, upon their request, documents and information concerning the said programs.
PART III. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 301. Definition. As used in this order, the word "functions" embraces duties, powers, responsibilities, authority, and discretion.
SEC. 302. Prior orders. (a) This order supersedes Executive Order No. 10476 of August 1, 1953 (18 F. R. 4537).
(b) The reference in section 3 (c) of Executive Order No. 10560 3 of September 9, 1954 (19 F. R. 5927), to Part III of Executive Order No. 10476 shall after the date of this order be deemed to be a reference to Part II of this order.
(c) Except to the extent inconsistent with law or with this order, and except as revoked, superseded, or otherwise made inapplicable before the time of issuance of this order, (1) all determinations, authorizations, regulations, rulings, certificates, orders, directives, contracts, agreements, and other actions issued, undertaken or entered into with respect to any function affected by this order shall continue in full force and effect until amended, modified, or revoked by appropriate authority, (2) each reference in any Executive order to any provision of law repealed by the Mutual Security Act of 1954 shall be deemed also to refer to the corresponding provision, if any, of the Mutual Security Act of 1954.
SEC. 303. Effective date. Without prejudice to anything done under proper authority with respect to any function under the Act at any time subsequent to the approval of the Act and prior to the approval of this order, the effective date of this order shall be deemed to be the date of the approval of the Act.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
November 6, 1954.