By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The custom of devoting one day each year to national thanksgiving is a wise and an ancient one, hallowed by observance in the days before we became a Nation, and sanctioned throughout the succeeding generations. It is therefore in keeping with our oldest traditions that at the fruitful season of the waning year we turn again to Almighty God in grateful acknowledgment of His manifold blessings.
At this time of thanksgiving, may we express our deep appreciation of those forebears who, more than three centuries ago, celebrated the first Thanksgiving Day. Through their industry and courage, our Nation was hewn from the virgin forest, and through their steadfastness and faith, the ideals of liberty and justice have become our cherished inheritance.
May we lift up our hearts in special prayers of gratitude for the abundance of our endowments, both material and spiritual, for the preservation of our way of life, in its richness and fullness, and for the religious faith which has wielded such a beneficent influence upon our destiny. May we show our thanks for our own bounty by remembrance of those less fortunate, and may the spirit of this Thanksgiving season move us to share with them to alleviate their need.
Now, Therefore, I, Dwight D. Eisenhower
, President of the United States of America, having in mind the joint Congressional resolution of December 26, 1941, which designated the fourth Thursday of November in each year as Thanksgiving Day and made that day a legal holiday, do hereby proclaim Thursday, the twenty-fourth day of November, 1955, as a day of national thanksgiving; and I urge all our citizens to observe the day with reverence. Let us, on the appointed day, in our homes and our accustomed places of worship, each according to his own faith, bow before God and give him humble thanks.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this eleventh day of October in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eightieth.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
By the President:
JOHN FOSTER DULLES,
Secretary of State