By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
, pursuant to section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 624), I issued Proclamation No. 3019 on June 8, 1953 (67 Stat. C 46), limiting to 1,709,000 pounds (aggregate quantity) the imports of peanuts, whether shelled, not shelled, blanched, salted, prepared, or preserved (including roasted peanuts, but not including peanut butter) which may be entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption in any 12-month period beginning July 1 in any year, which proclamation was amended by Proclamation No. 3025 of June 30, 1953 (67 Stat. C 54); and
Whereas
 on February 18, 1955, the United States Tariff Commission submitted to me a report of its findings and recommendation made in connection with a supplemental investigation conducted by the Commission with respect to peanuts, on the basis of which supplemental investigation and report I issued Proclamation No. 3084 on March 9, 1955 (20 F. R. 1549), modifying the said Proclamation No. 3019, as amended, so as to permit the entry, or withdrawal from warehouse, for consumption, during the remainder of the 12-month period ending June 30, 1955, of an additional quantity of not more than 51,000,000 pounds (aggregate quantity) of certain peanuts, subject to a fee of 2 cents per pound but not more than 50 per centum ad valorem, which fee was in addition to any other duties imposed upon the importation of such peanuts; and
Whereas
, pursuant to section 22 (d) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended, the United States Tariff Commission has made a second supplemental investigation to determine whether the deficit in the domestic supply of peanuts is such as to require an increase in the quantity of peanuts, whether shelled, not shelled, blanched, salted, prepared, or preserved, which may be permitted to be entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption during the quota year ending June 30, 1955, and during the .quota year beginning July 1, 1955, to meet essential requirements of domestic peanut users, and, if so, what additional quantity or quantities of such peanuts may be permitted to be so entered or withdrawn without materially interfering with or rendering ineffective the peanut program of the Department of Agriculture; and
Whereas
 the United States Tariff Commission has submitted to me a report of its findings and recommendations in connection with the said second supplemental investigation; and
Whereas
, on the basis of the said second supplemental investigation and report of the Tariff Commission, I find that the deficit in the domestic supply of peanuts is such as to require the admission of an additional quantity of peanuts, as hereinafter proclaimed, to meet the essential requirements of domestic peanut users until supplies become available from the 1955 domestic crop; and
Whereas
 I find and declare that the admission of such additional quantity of peanuts under the conditions and subject to the fee hereinafter proclaimed is necessary in order that the entry of such peanuts will not render or tend to render ineffective, or materially interfere with, the said program of the Department of Agriculture with respect to peanuts, or reduce substantially the amount of any product processed in the United States from peanuts with respect to which such program is being undertaken:
Now, Therefore, I, Dwight D. Eisenhower
, President of the United States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by the said section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended, do hereby proclaim that the said Proclamation No. 3019, as amended and modified, is hereby further amended and modified so as—.
(1) to extend the current quota year for peanuts through July 31, 1955;
(2) to permit an unlimited additional quantity of peanuts, shelled, blanched, salted, prepared, or preserved (including roasted peanuts, but not including peanuts not shelled or peanut butter), to be entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or before July 31, 1955, subject to a fee of 2 cents per pound, but not more than 50 per centum ad valorem: Provided, that the said fee shall be in addition to any other duties imposed on the importation of such peanuts; and
(3) to establish hereafter as the quota year for peanuts the 12-month period beginning August 1 in any year.
The said Proclamation No. 3084 of March 9, 1955, is hereby terminated.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this 16th day of May in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-ninth.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
By the President:
JOHN FOSTER DULLES,
Secretary of State