By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, and in order to provide for the fullest development and coordination of the aviation policies and activities of Federal agencies, it is ordered as follows:
1. (a) The Air Coordinating Committee (hereinafter referred to as the Committee), established by Executive Order No. 9781 of September 19, 1946, as amended by Executive Order No. 10360 of June 11, 1952, shall have as members one representative from each of the following-named agencies (hereinafter referred to as member agencies): the executive Departments of State, Treasury, Post Office, and Commerce, the military departments of the Army, Navy, and Air Force, the Civil Aeronautics Board, and the Federal Communications Commission. The members of the Committee shall be designated by the respective heads of the member agencies. The President shall name one of the members as Chairman of the Committee. The Director of the Bureau of the Budget and the Director of the Office of Defense Mobilization shall each designate one representative of his agency as a nonvoting member of the Committee.
(b) Each officer or body authorized under subparagraph 1 (a) hereof to designate a member of the Committee shall also designate one or more alternate members, as may be necessary.
(c) The Committee shall establish procedures to provide for participation, including participation in voting, by a representative of any agency not named in paragraph 1 (a) hereof in connection with such aviation matters as are of substantial interest to that agency.
2. The Committee shall examine aviation problems and developments affecting more than one member agency; develop and recommend integrated policies to be carried out and actions to be taken by the member agencies or by any other Government agency charged with responsibility in the aviation field; and, to the extent permitted by law, coordinate the aviation activities of such agencies except activities relating to the exercise of quasi-judicial functions.
3. The Committee shall consult with Federal interagency boards and committees concerned in any manner with aviation activities; shall consult with the representatives of the United States to the International Civil Aviation Organization; and, where appropriate, shall consult with other international bodies concerned with civil aviation and recommend to the Department of State general policy directives and instructions for the guidance of the said representatives.
4. The Committee, after obtaining the views of the head of each agency concerned, shall submit to the President, together with the said views, (a) such of the Committee's recommendations on aviation policies as require the attention of the President by reason of their character or importance, (b) those important aviation questions the disposition of which is prevented by the inability of the agencies concerned to agree, and (c) an annual report of the Committee's activities during each calendar year, to be submitted not later than January 31 of the next succeeding year.
5. The heads of the member agencies shall cause their respective agencies to use the facilities of the Committee in all appropriate circumstances, and, consonant with law, to provide the Committee with such personnel assistance as may be necessary.
6. This order supersedes Executive Order No. 9781 of September 19, 1946. and Executive Order No. 10360 of June 11, 1952.
7. This order shall not be construed as necessitating the redesignation of members of the Committee, or the renaming of the Chairman of the Committee, serving on the date hereof.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
January 28, 1956.