By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States and as Commander in Chief of the armed forces of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. The Secretaries of the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force, respectively, are hereby authorized to issue a citation in the name of the President of the United States, as public evidence of deserved honor and distinction, to any organization, detachment, installation, ship, aircraft, or other unit for outstanding performance in action on or after October 16, 1941, in the case of the Navy or Marine Corps, and on or after December 7, 1941, in the case of the Army or the Air Force. Such citations may also be issued to units of armed forces of co-belligerent nations serving with the armed forces of the United States for outstanding performance in action on or after December 7, 1941; provided that such units shall meet the standards established for the armed forces of the United States.
2. Appropriate insignia of such form and design as may be determined by the Secretary concerned may be displayed by any organization, detachment, installation, ship, aircraft, or other unit to which such citation is issued.
3. After any unit is cited pursuant to paragraph 1 hereof for outstanding performance in action, a ribbon identifying such citation shall be issued and shall become a permanent part of the uniform of those persons assigned or attached thereto who were actually present and participated in the action for which the unit was cited, or in one of the actions if more than one action is mentioned in the citation, whether they thereafter serve with such unit or with a different unit. Such persons are authorized to wear an appropriate additional device for any subsequent citation for which they are eligible, made either to the same unit or to a unit to which they are subsequently assigned. If authorized by the Secretary concerned, persons assigned to a unit subsequent to an action for which it was cited, may wear the citation ribbon while so assigned.
4. This order supersedes Executive Orders No. 9050 of February 6, 1942, and No. 9396 of November 22, 1943.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
January 10, 1957.