By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The annual celebration of the birthday of our flag, adopted by the Continental Congress on June 14, 1777, has become a cherished national custom.
It is fitting that we should observe this anniversary by solemn contemplation of the meaning of the flag we honor. We should remember that it is emblematic of our Nation itself; that our aspirations, our principles, our whole character as a people are symbolized in the Stars and Stripes.
We should recall that under its protecting folds generations of Americans have lived and worked to establish the foundations of our Nation's greatness, and people of varied heritage, creed, and race have found surcease from oppression.
In recognition of the importance of a yearly commemoration of our flag, the Congress, by a joint resolution approved August 3, 1949 (63 Stat. 492), designated June 14 of each year as Flag Day and requested the President to issue annually a proclamation calling for its observance.
Now, Therefore, I, Dwight D. Eisenhower
, President of the United States of America, do hereby direct that the flag of the United States be displayed on all Government buildings on Saturday, June 14, 1958, and I call upon the people to observe that day with suitable ceremonies, including the display of the flag at their homes and other appropriate places.
I also urge all our citizens to give special thought on Flag Day to their duties and obligations as well as to their rights and privileges as Americans under our national ensign, to the end that they may rededicate themselves to the principles of freedom and justice for which our flag and our country stand.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this 12th day of May in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-second.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
By the President:
JOHN FOSTER DULLES,
Secretary of State