By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 111 of title 38 of the United States Code, I hereby prescribe the following regulations governing the allowance of travel expenses of claimants and beneficiaries of the Veterans' Administration and their attendants:
SECTION 1. The Administrator of Veterans' Affairs may authorize the payment of the actual necessary expenses of travel, including lodging and subsistence, of any claimant or beneficiary of the Veterans' Administration traveling under prior authorization to or from a Veterans' Administration facility, or other place, in connection with vocational rehabilitation or counseling, or for the purpose of examination, treatment, or care. The Administrator may authorize such payment to the claimant or beneficiary or, in his discretion, to the person who or the organization which has actually paid the expenses of such travel, including lodging and subsistence.
SEC. 2. The Administrator of Veterans' Affairs may authorize in lieu of actual necessary expenses of travel, including lodging and subsistence, payment of an allowance of not more than five cents a mile to any claimant or beneficiary of the Veterans' Administration traveling under prior authorization to or from a Veterans' Administration facility, or other place, in connection with the vocational rehabilitation or counseling, or for the purpose of examination, treatment, or care. In his discretion, the Administrator may authorize such payment to the person who or the organization which has actually paid the expenses of such travel, including lodging and subsistence. The payment of mileage in connection with vocational rehabilitation or counseling, or upon termination of examination, treatment, or care may be made prior to completion of such travel.
SEC. 3. Whenever a claimant or beneficiary requires an attendant other than an employee of the Veterans' Administration for the performance of travel specified in sections 1 and 2 hereof, the travel expenses of such attendant may be allowed in the same manner and to the same extent that travel expenses are allowed to such claimant or beneficiary.
SEC. 4. The Administrator of Veterans' Affairs may prescribe such rules and regulations not inconsistent herewith as may be necessary to effectuate the provisions of this order.
SEC. 5. Executive Order No. 9975 of July 7, 1948, and Executive Order No. 10070 of July 20, 1949, are hereby revoked.
SEC. 6. This order shall become effective as of January 1, 1959.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
April 22, 1959.