By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
, pursuant to section 2 of the act of July 1, 1954, as amended (72 Stat. 678, 19 U.S.C. 1352a), I found and declared that adjustments must be made in the imports of crude oil, unfinished oils, and finished products so that such imports would not threaten to impair the national security and by Proclamation No. 3279 of March 10, 1959 (24 P.R. 1781), proclaimed such adjustments;
Whereas
 I find and determine that it is not necessary, in order to prevent imports of crude oil, unfinished oils, and finished products from threatening to impair the national security, to exclude such additional quantities thereof as may be imported pursuant to this proclamation; and
Whereas
 the adjustments of imports of crude oil, unfinished oils, and finished products provided for in the proclamation of March 10, 1959, as modified by this proclamation, are deemed by me to constitute adjustments of such imports so that they will not threaten to impair the national security:
Now, Therefore, I, Dwight D. Eisenhower
, President of the United States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes including section 2 of the act of July 1, 1954, as amended, do hereby proclaim that:
1. On and after June 1, 1959, Proclamation No. 3279 of March 10, 1959, shall be amended as follows:
(a) Paragraph (a) of section 1 is amended by adding, before the period at the end thereof, the following new clause: ", or (4) crude oil, unfinished oils, or finished products which are transported into the United States by pipeline, rail, or other means of overland transportation from the country where they were produced, which country, in the case of unfinished oils or finished products, is also the country of production of the crude oil from which they were processed or manufactured."
(b) Paragraph (c) of section 2 is amended to read as follows:
"(c) The levels of authorized imports established by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall not include imports of crude oil, unfinished oils, or finished products excepted by clause (4) of paragraph (a) of section 1; and the quantities subject to allocation pursuant to section 3 shall not be reduced by reason of such excepted imports, except that (i) the daily quantities of authorized imports into District V subject to allocation shall, after June 30, 1959, be reduced by the average daily quantities of entries, and withdrawals from warehouse, for consumption in that District which would have been excepted by clause (4) of paragraph (a) of section 1 if that clause had been operative during the period March 11 to April 23, 1959, and (ii) if the President should find, and notify the Secretary of the Interior, that, for any period for which allocations are made, a reduction is necessary in order to prevent total imports into Districts I-IV or into District V from seriously impairing accomplishment of the purposes of this proclamation, the quantities of authorized imports into Districts I-IV or into District V, as the case may be, subject to allocation shall be reduced to the extent found necessary by the President."
(c) Paragraph (b) (1) of section 3 is amended by inserting after the word "inputs" the following phrase: "(excluding inputs of crude oil or unfinished oils imported pursuant to clause (4) of paragraph (a) of section 1) " and by deleting therefrom the second sentence; and paragraph (b) (3) of section 3 is amended by deleting therefrom the second sentence.
2. On and after the date of this proclamation, paragraph (b) of section 1 of Proclamation No. 3279 of March 10, 1959, is amended to read as follows:
"(b) The Secretary of the Interior may, in his discretion, authorize entries without a license of small quantities of crude oil, unfinished oils, or finished products, including samples for testing or analysis, baggage entries, and informal entries."
The amendment made by this paragraph shall have no effect upon actions taken prior to the day on which it becomes effective.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this 30th day of April in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-third.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
By the President:
DOUGLAS DILLON,
Acting Secretary of State.