By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
, pursuant to section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 624), the President, on June 8, 1953, issued Proclamation No. 3019 imposing fees or quantitative limitations on imports of products specified in Lists I, II, and III appended to and made a part of that proclamation (3 CFR, 1949-1953 Comp., p. 189), which has been modified or amended from time to time; and 
Whereas
 the United States Tariff Commission has made an investigation under the authority of subsection (d) of the said section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, supplemental to its investigation No. 6 under that section 22, to determine whether the fees imposed by Proclamation No. 3019 on peanut oil, flaxseed, and on linseed oil and combinations and mixtures in chief value of such oil should be terminated or modified; and 
Whereas
 the said Commission has submitted to me a report of its supplemental investigation and its findings and recommendations made in connection therewith; and 
Whereas
, on the basis of such investigation and report, I find that the circumstances requiring the imposition of fees on peanut oil, flaxseed, and on linseed oil and combinations and mixtures in chief value of such oil, no longer exist: 
Now, Therefore, I, John F. Kennedy,
 President of the United States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 22(d) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended, do hereby amend, effective May 5, 1961, List III appended to the said Proclamation No. 3019, as amended, by deleting therefrom the provisions relating to peanut oil, flaxseed, and linseed oil and combinations and mixtures in chief value of such oil, and the fees specified for such products. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this fifth day of April in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-fifth. 
JOHN F. KENNEDY 
By the President: 
DEAN RUSK, 
Secretary of State.