By virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. The Secretary of Defense and the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Agency are hereby designated and empowered to exercise jointly, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the authority vested in the President by the first sentence of Section 304 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (72 Stat. 749; 49 U.S.C. 1345 (first sentence)) to transfer functions (including, as used in this order, powers, duties, activities, facilities, and parts of functions) as described in that sentence to the extent that the said authority is in respect of transfers from the Department of Defense or any officer or organizational entity thereof to the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Agency of functions relating to flight inspection of air navigation facilities. 
SEC. 2. The Administrator and the Secretary shall exercise the authority hereinabove delegated to them only as they shall deem such exercise to be necessary or desirable in the interest of promoting, in respect of either civil or military aviation or both, safe and efficient air navigation and air traffic control. 
SEC. 3. (a) To the extent necessitated by transfers of functions effected under the provisions of Section 1 of this order: 
(1) Transfers of balances of appropriations available and necessary to finance and discharge the transferred functions shall be made under the authority of Section 202(b) of the Budget and Accounting Procedures Act of 1950 (31 U.S.C. 581c (b)) as affected by the provisions of Section 1 (k) of Executive Order No. 10530 of May 10, 1954. 
(2) Provisions for appropriate transfers of records and property shall be made under the authority of the last sentence of Section 304 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 as affected by the provisions of Section 1 of Executive Order No. 10797 of December 24, 1958. 
(b) Neither this order nor the said Executive Order No. 10797 shall be deemed to require or authorize the transfer of any civilian or military personnel from the Department of Defense to the Federal Aviation Agency, under authority of the said Section 304, in connection with transfers of functions effected under the provisions of Section 1 of this order. 
SEC. 4. (a) In order to facilitate the orderly and timely accomplishment of the transfers and other arrangements mentioned in Section 3(a) of this order, the Secretary of Defense and the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Agency shall transmit to the Director of the Bureau of the Budget, not less than 30 days prior to the execution by them of any order or other transfer instrument in pursuance of the provisions of Section 1 of this order, all appropriate information in respect of any transfers or other arrangements proposed to be made in connection therewith under the provisions of Section 3 hereof, together with copy of the order or other transfer instrument proposed to be executed by them. 
(b) In connection with any particular action or actions under Section 1 of this order, the Director of the Bureau of the Budget may either waive the requirements of Section 4 (a) , above, or reduce the 30 day period there prescribed. 
JOHN F. KENNEDY
THE WHITE HOUSE,
August 28, 1962