WHEREAS a dispute exists between the Florida East Coast Railway Company, a carrier, and certain of its employees represented by the Eleven Cooperating Railway Labor Organizations, designated in LIST A attached hereto and made a part hereof; and 
WHEREAS this dispute has not heretofore been adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended; and 
WHEREAS this dispute, in the judgment of the National Mediation Board, threatens substantially to interrupt interstate commerce to a degree such as to deprive a section of the country of essential transportation service: 
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 10 of the Railway Labor Act, as amended (45 U.S.C. 160), I hereby create a board of three members, to be appointed by me, to investigate this dispute. No member of the board shall be pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of railroad employees or any carrier. 
The Board shall report its findings to the President with respect to this dispute within thirty days from the date of this order. 
As provided by Section 10 of the Railway Labor Act, as amended, from this date and for thirty days after the board has made its report to the President, no change, except by agreement, shall be made by the Florida East Coast Railway Company, or by its employees, in the conditions out of which the dispute arose. 
JOHN F. KENNEDY
THE WHITE HOUSE,
November 9, 1963
LIST A 
International Association of Machinists.
International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers and Helpers. 
Sheet Metal Workers' International Association. 
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. 
Brotherhood of Railway Carmen of America. 
International Brotherhood of Firemen and Oilers.
Brotherhood of Railway and Steamship Clerks, Freight Handlers, Express and Station Employees.
Brotherhood of Maintenance of Way Employees. 
The Order of Railroad Telegraphers. 
Brotherhood of Railroad Signalmen.
Hotel & Restaurant Employees & Bartenders' International Union.