WHEREAS, on September 10, 1963, I issued a proclamation entitled "Obstructions of Justice in the State of Alabama" pursuant in part to the provisions of Section 334 of Title 10 of the United States Code; and 
WHEREAS the commands contained in that proclamation have not been obeyed, and the unlawful obstructions of justice, assemblies, combinations, and conspiracies referred to therein continue: 
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, including Chapter 15 of Title 10 of the United States Code, particularly Sections 382, 383 and 384 thereof, and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. The Secretary of Defense is authorized and directed to take all appropriate steps to remove obstructions of justice in the State of Alabama, to enforce the laws of the United States within that State, including any orders of United States Courts relating to the enrollment and attendance of students in public schools in the State of Alabama, and to suppress unlawful assemblies, combinations, conspiracies, and domestic violence which oppose, obstruct, or hinder the execution of the law or impede the course of justice under the law within that State. 
SEC. 2. In furtherance of the authorization and direction contained in Section 1 hereof, the Secretary of Defense is authorized to use such of the Armed Forces of the United States as he may deem necessary. 
SEC. 3. I hereby authorize and direct the Secretary of Defense to call into the active military service of the United States, as he may deem appropriate to carry out the purposes of this order, any or all of the units of the Army National Guard and of the Air National Guard of the State of Alabama to serve in the active military service of the United States for an indefinite period and until relieved by appropriate orders. In carrying out the provisions of Section 1, the Secretary of Defense is authorized to use the units, and members thereof, of the Army National Guard and of the Air National Guard of the State of Alabama called into the active military service of the United States pursuant to this section or otherwise. 
SEC. 4. The Secretary of Defense is authorized to delegate to the Secretary of the Army or the Secretary of the Air Force, or both, any of the authority conferred upon him by this order. 
JOHN F. KENNEDY
THE WHITE HOUSE,
September 10, 1963