WHEREAS the Federal Reconstruction and Development Planning Commission for Alaska has substantially completed the execution of those of its functions which pertain to the reconstruction of the State of Alaska following the earthquake of March 27, 1964; and
WHEREAS the Federal Government and the State of Alaska continue to have a common interest in assuring the most effective use of Federal and State programs and funds in advancing the long-range progress of the State; and
WHEREAS such effective use is dependent upon coordination of Federal and State programs which affect the general economic development of the State and the long-range conservation and use of its natural resources and upon cooperative Federal and State effort with respect to the planning of such programs; and
WHEREAS the State of Alaska has established a State body the duties of which include planning for the general economic development of the State and the long-range conservation and use of its natural resources; and
WHEREAS the authorities of the State of Alaska are desirous of arranging coordinated and cooperative Federal and State approaches to the planning and execution of such programs:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
Part I. Field Committee
Section 1. Establishment of Field Committee. (a) There is hereby established the Federal Field Committee for Development Planning in Alaska (hereinafter referred to as the "Field Committee").
(b) The Field Committee shall be composed of the following members: (1) a Chairman, who shall be appointed by the President, (2) nine members who shall be designated by and represent the following named officers, respectively: the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, the Housing and Home Finance Administrator, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Agency, and the Administrator of the Small Business Administration, (3) one member who shall represent the Federal Power Commission and shall be designated by the Chairman of that Commission, and (4) two public members who shall be appointed by the President.
(c) The Chairman may request any head of a Federal agency who is not referred to in subsection (b), above, to designate a representative to participate in meetings of the Field Committee concerned with matters of substantial interest to such Federal agency head.
(d) The principal place of business of the Field Committee shall be located in the State of Alaska.
Sec. 2. Functions of the Field Committee. (a) Subject to the general direction and guidance of the President's Review Committee for Development Planning in Alaska (established by the provisions of Part II of this order; hereinafter sometimes referred to as the "Review Committee"), the Field Committee shall serve as the principal instrumentality for developing coordinated plans for Federal programs which contribute to economic and resources development in Alaska and for recommending appropriate action by the Federal Government to carry out such plans.
(b) The Field Committee shall cooperate with representatives designated by the Governor of Alaska for purposes related to this order in accomplishing the following:
(1) Making or fostering surveys and studies to provide data for the development of plans and programs for economic and resources development in Alaska.
(2) Preparing and keeping current coordinated plans for economic and resources development in Alaska deemed appropriate to carry out existing statutory responsibilities and policies of Federal, State, or local agencies. Such plans shall be designed to promote optimum benefits from the expenditures of Federal, State, and local funds for consistent objectives and purposes.
(3) Preparing legislative and other recommendations with respect to both short-range and long-range programs and projects for Federal, State, or local agencies.
Sec. 3. Field Committee procedures. (a) The Field Committee shall meet at the call of its Chairman.
(b) The Field Committee may prescribe such regulations relating to the conduct of its affairs as it may deem to be necessary and not inconsistent with the provisions of this order.
(c) The Field Committee may establish such subcommittees of that Committee as may be necessary.
(d) Activities carried on by personnel employed by or detailed to the Field Committee (1) shall be carried out in accordance with such policies and programs as may be approved by the Field Committee, and (2) shall be under the direction and supervision of the Chairman or, to such extent as may be determined by the Chairman, under the direction of a principal member of the Field Committee's staff.
(e) The Field Committee shall transmit copies of plans or recommendations tentatively formulated by it to the Review Committee, the heads of interested Federal agencies, and the Governor of Alaska, for review and comment. The Field Committee shall consider any comments received by it within 90 days in pursuance of such transmittal and may revise the plans and recommendations as it may deem appropriate.
(f) The Field Committee shall transmit copies of its revised plans and recommendations, together with copies of any comments with respect to the tentative plans or recommendations received by the Field Committee in pursuance of the provisions of subsection (d), above, to the Governor of Alaska and to the Review Committee.
Sec. 4. Personnel; compensation. (a) The Chairman of the Field Committee is authorized to appoint such personnel as may be necessary to assist the Field Committee in connection with the performance of its functions and to obtain services in accordance with the provisions of Section 15 of the Act of August 2, 1946 (5 U.S.C. 55a).
(b) The Chairman of the Field Committee shall receive such compensation as shall be fixed in accordance with the standards and procedures of the Classification Act of 1949, as amended.
(c) Each member of the Field Committee appointed under the provisions of Section 1(b)(4) hereof may receive compensation for each day he is engaged in meetings of that Committee or is with the approval of the Chairman of the Field Committee engaged in other work in pursuance of the provisions of this order (5 U.S.C. 55a).
(d) Members and personnel of the Field Committee may be allowed travel expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law.
Sec. 5. Financing agency cooperation. (a) Each Federal agency the head of which is referred to in Section 1(b) of this order shall, as may be necessary, furnish assistance to the Field Committee in accordance with the provisions of Section 214 of the Act of May 3, 1945 (59 Stat. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691). In general, each such Federal agency shall, consonant with law, extend its cooperation to the Field Committee in connection with the carrying out of the functions of the Field Committee, including, as may be appropriate, (1) the furnishing of relevant available information to the Field Committee, (2) the making of studies and the preparation of reports in pursuance of requests of the Field Committee, and (3) in connection with the development of programs and priorities of the agency, the giving of full consideration to any plans and recommendations made by the Field Committee.
(b) Federal agencies the heads of which are not referred to in Section 1 (b) of this order shall, to the extent permitted by law, furnish the Field Committee such information or advice bearing upon the work of the Field Committee as the Chairman thereof may from time to time request.
Part II. Review Committee
Sec. 11. Establishment of Review Committee. (a) There is hereby established the President's Review Committee for Development Planning in Alaska (hereinafter referred to as the "Review Committee").
(b) The Review Committee shall be composed of the following members: the Secretary of Commerce, who shall be the Chairman, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, the Housing and Home Finance Administrator, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Agency, the Administrator of the Small Business Administration, the Chairman of the Federal Power Commission, and two public members who shall be appointed by the President. Each member of the Review Committee, other than a public member, may designate an alternate to represent him at meetings of the Review Committee which he is unable to attend.
(c) The Review Committee shall meet at least once each calendar year, at the call of its Chairman.
(d) The Review Committee may prescribe such regulations relating to the conduct of its affairs as it may deem to be necessary and not inconsistent with the provisions of this order.
Sec. 12. Functions of the Review Committee. The Review Committee shall provide general direction and guidance to the Field Committee; receive, review, and comment on the tentative plans or recommendations of the Field Committee; and receive and consider the final plans and recommendations of the Field Committee and transmit them, together with its own comments, to the President and the heads of interested Federal agencies.
Sec. 13. Compensation; travel expenses. (a) Each public member of the Review Committee may receive compensation for each day he is engaged in meetings of that Committee or is with the approval of the Chairman of the Review Committee engaged in other work in pursuance of the provisions of this order (5 U.S.C. 55a).
(b) Members and personnel of the Review Committee may be allowed travel expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law.
Sec. 14. Assistance by agencies. Each Federal agency the head of which is referred to in Section 11(b) of this order shall, as may be necessary, furnish assistance to the Review Committee in accordance with the provisions of Section 214 of the Act of May 3, 1945 (59 Stat. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691).
Sec. 15. Administrative services. The Department of Commerce is hereby designated as the agency which shall provide administrative services for the Review Committee.
Part III. Office Of Emergency Planning
Sec. 31. Functions related to earthquake. The provisions of Section 41 hereof notwithstanding and so long as the President's declaration of a major disaster with respect to the earthquake which occurred in Alaska on March 27, 1964, remains in effect, the Director of the Office of Emergency Planning shall carry out the functions (heretofore assigned to the Federal Reconstruction and Development Planning Commission for Alaska by the provisions of Executive Order No. 11150 of April 2, 1964) of developing coordinated plans for Federal programs which contribute to reconstruction in Alaska and recommending appropriate action by the Federal Government to carry out such plans.
Part IV. Miscellaneous Provisions
Sec. 41. Termination of existing Commission. (a) Executive Order No. 11150 of April 2, 1964 (29 F.R. 4789), is hereby revoked and the Federal Reconstruction and Development Planning Commission for Alaska established thereby is abolished.
(b) The Director of the Bureau of the Budget shall make such arrangements related to the termination of the said Commission as he may deem necessary. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the said Director is authorized, as he shall deem to be necessary or appropriate, to assign to Federal agencies duties with respect to the liquidation of the outstanding affairs of the Commission and to effect or arrange the transfer of records, property, personnel, and funds of the Commission to other Federal agencies.
(c) Nothing in this order shall preclude or limit the transferability, pursuant to law, of unobligated balances of funds appropriated for the Commission abolished by Section 41(a) of this order (78 Stat. 209) or the use of such balances in connection with this order.
Sec. 42. Construction. Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any Federal agency, or any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal agency, to the authority of any other Federal agency, or as abrogating or restricting any such function in any manner.
Sec 43. Definition. Except as may be inconsistent with the provisions of this order or otherwise inappropriate, the term "Federal agency", as used herein, includes any department or other agency or instrumentality of the executive branch of the Government of the United States and any officer thereof (including the Field Committee and the Review Committee).
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House,
October 2, 1964.