By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
September 24, 1964, marks the one hundred and seventy-fifth anniversary of the enactment of the Judiciary Act of 1789, which provided for the appointment of United States Marshals for each of the thirteen newly-created Federal judicial districts. The contribution of the United States Marshals and their staffs to the development of the Federal judicial system is now a legend in the annals of our country. Their role in establishing the rule of law throughout the length and breadth of this Nation, including the new territories where some recognized no authority other than raw courage, is inscribed in history and enshrined in our national folklore. First in establishing the authority of the new Federal Government, and thereafter in performing a central function in Federal law enforcement, the United States Marshal has become a foremost symbol and servant of the law. 
The marshal's duties have changed with the times. Some of the services once performed by marshals have now been reassigned to specialized agencies. However, the importance of the marshal's position as an indispensable arm of our judicial system remains undiminished. Throughout the changes which have characterized this country's rise from a young republic to the foremost power in this world, the marshal has always performed with steadfast dedication, competency, and inspiration. Over the past century and three-quarters, the marshal's star has symbolized a tradition of service and courage; it has shone with the gleam of constancy and integrity in the performance of duty. 
On this the one hundred and seventy-fifth anniversary of the establishment of that service, it is fit and appropriate that a grateful Nation acknowledge and extol the distinguished record of our United States Marshals, past and present, and of their deputies; special deputies, and other staff assistants. To them all we owe special recognition and commendation. 
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Thursday, September 24, 1964, as "United States Marshal Day," and I call upon the Federal courts, Federal departments and agencies, bar associations and other civic groups, and members of the bar and other interested individuals to plan and participate in appropriate ceremonies and activities providing public recognition for the one hundred and seventy-five years of devoted public service performed by United States Marshals and their staffs. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this eighteenth day of August in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-ninth. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON 
By the President: 
DEAN RUSK, 
Secretary of State.