By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 the number of Americans aged sixty-five and over comprise a segment of our population which is growing at an accelerating rate as the miracles of modern medicine contribute to increased life expectancy; and 
Whereas
, since not everyone is blessed with the gift of long life, those who are so endowed should occupy a place of special honor among us; and 
Whereas
 our country, although more blessed with abundance than any other, cannot afford to be wasteful of its resources if it is to achieve its fullest potential; and 
Whereas
 the Federal Government is deeply and constantly concerned with the well-being of all its citizens; and. 
Whereas
  this Nation can and should offer leadership and assistance to the States, municipalities, and voluntary organizations in their efforts to extend special recognition to and make continuing maximum use of the skills of our senior citizens: 
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the month of May 1964 as Senior Citizens Month, and I urge all public and private organizations and all citizens to make the theme of this special month-
Opportunities for Older Americans
-become a living reality. Let us repay our older Americans for their sustained creative participation in our national and community life by providing them with a wide range of meaningful opportunities. Let us take all necessary steps to see that they have a real chance to enjoy health, love, and a life of dignity. Let us find ways to employ the skill and wisdom that so many of our older Americans possess and long to share. Let us make this month outstanding in our continuing effort to keep in the mainstream of our national life all those who have lived so long and contributed so generously. 
I also invite the Governors of the States, the Governor of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, and appropriate officials in other areas subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to join in the observance of Senior Citizens Month. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this twenty-sixth day of March in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-eighth. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON 
By the President: 
Dean Rusk,
Secretary of State.