WHEREAS the people of the State of Alaska have experienced death, injury and property loss and damage of staggering proportions as a result of the earthquake of March 27, 1964; and
WHEREAS the President, acting pursuant to authority granted in the Act of September 30, 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1855-1855g), has declared a major disaster in those areas of Alaska adversely affected by the earthquake beginning on March 27, 1964; and
WHEREAS the Federal Government and the State of Alaska desire to cooperate in the prompt reconstruction of the damaged Alaska communities; and
WHEREAS the Federal and State Governments have a common interest in assuring the most effective use of Federal and State programs and funds in advancing reconstruction and the long-range development of the State; and
WHEREAS such effective use is dependent upon coordination of Federal and State programs, including emergency reconstruction activities, which affect general economic development of the State and the long-range conservation and use of natural resources; and
WHEREAS the Governor of Alaska has declared his intention to establish a State commission for reconstruction and development planning:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment of Commission. (a) There is hereby established the Federal Reconstruction and Development Planning Commission for Alaska (hereinafter referred to as the Commission).
(b) The Commission shall be composed of a Chairman, who shall be designated by the President, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Agency, the Housing and Home Finance Administrator, the Administrator of the Small Business Administration, the Chairman of the Federal Power Commission, and, so long as the President's declaration of a major disaster is in effect, the Director of the Office of Emergency Planning. Each agency head may designate an alternate to represent him at meetings of the Commission which he is unable to attend.
(c) The Chairman may request the head of any Federal executive department or agency who is not a member of the Commission under the provisions of subsection (b), above, to participate in meetings of the Commission concerned with matters of substantial interest to such department or agency head.
(d) The President shall designate an Executive Director of the Commission, whose compensation shall be fixed in accordance with the standards and procedures of the Classification Act of 1949, as amended.
Sec. 2. Functions of the Commission. (a) The Commission shall develop coordinated plans for Federal programs which contribute to reconstruction and to economic and resources development in Alaska and shall recommend appropriate action by the Federal Government to carry out such plans.
(b) When the Governor of Alaska has designated representatives of the State of Alaska for purposes related to this order, the Commission shall cooperate with such representatives in accomplishing the following:
(1) Making or arranging for surveys and studies to provide data for the development of plans and programs for reconstruction and for economic and resources development in Alaska.
(2) Preparing coordinated plans for reconstruction and economic and resources development in Alaska deemed appropriate to carry out existing statutory responsibilities of Federal, State, and local agencies. Such plans shall be designed to promote optimum benefits from the expenditure of Federal, State, and local funds for consistent objectives and purposes.
(3) Preparing recommendations to the President and to the Governor of Alaska with respect to both short-range and long-range programs and projects to be carried out by Federal, State, or local agencies, including recommendations for such additional Federal or State legislation as may be deemed necessary and appropriate to meet reconstruction and development needs.
Sec. 3. Commission procedures. (a) The Commission shall meet at the call of the Chairman.
(b) The Commission may prescribe such regulations as it deems necessary for the conduct of its affairs, and may establish such field committees in Alaska as may be appropriate.
(c) Personnel assigned to the Commission shall be directed and supervised by the Executive Director of the Commission. Activities of the staff shall be carried out, under the general direction and supervision of the Chairman, in accordance with such policies and programs as may be approved by the Commission.
(d) The Chairman of the Commission shall report to the President from time to time on progress and accomplishments.
Sec. 4. Agency cooperation. (a) Each Federal agency represented on the Commission shall, consonant with law, cooperate with the Commission to expedite and facilitate its work. Each such agency shall, as may be necessary, furnish assistance to the Commission in accordance with the provisions of section 214 of the Act of May 3, 1945 (59 Stat. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691).
(h) Other Federal agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, furnish the Commission such information or advice bearing upon the work of the Commission as the Chairman may from time to time request.
Sec. 5. Construction. Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any Federal agency or officer, or any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal agency or officer, to the authority of the Commission or of any other agency or officer, or as abrogating any such function in any manner.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
Approved:
The White House,
April 2, 1964.