By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
In setting aside the first day of May in each year as Law Day, U.S.A., the Congress of the United States called upon the American people to rededicate themselves to the ideals of equality and justice under law in their relations with each other and with other nations, and to cultivate "that respect for law that is so vital to the democratic way of life." 
The educational objectives of Law Day, U.S.A., are of fundamental importance to our Nation. Respect for law is the condition upon which our whole social order depends. Observance of the law is essential to public order and to the strengthening of the individual rights of our citizens. A viable democracy requires understanding of the nature and basis of our freedoms and recognition of the individual responsibilities which those freedoms impose. 
Bringing a fuller awareness of these truths to all citizens, and particularly to young Americans, is the central purpose of the seventh annual Law Day, U.S.A., on May 1, 1961. The theme of "Observe the Law-Key to Order, Justice, Freedom," will serve as a timely reminder that the basic values of our system can be maintained only through voluntary adherence to the rule of law in our daily lives. 
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby request the people of our country to give recognition and support to the nationwide observance of Law Day, U.S.A., on the first day of May 1964. I urge that our schools, courts, churches, bar associations, service organizations, and the media of public information join in this constructive educational effort. Further, I call upon all public officials to display the Nation's flag on public buildings on that day as requested by the Congress. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this sixteenth day of January in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-eighth. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON 
By the President: 
Dean Rusk,
Secretary of State.