By virtue of the authority vested in me by Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1965 (30 F.R. 9353), and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows: 
PART I. SECRETARY OF STATE 
SECTION 1. 
Delegation of functions.
 Except to the extent inconsistent with Sections 22(a) and 32(a) of this Order, all the functions which were transferred to the President by Sections 1 (c) and 1 (d) of Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1965 are hereby delegated to the Secretary of State, hereinafter referred to as the Secretary. 
SEC. 2. 
Redelegation.
 The Secretary may redelegate the functions delegated to him by the provisions of Section 1 of this Order to officials or bodies of the Department of State. 
PART II. BOARD OF THE FOREIGN SERVICE 
SEC. 21. 
Establishment of Board.
 (a) There is hereby established in the Department of State the Board of the Foreign Service, hereafter in this Part referred to as the Board. 
(b) The Board shall be composed of: 
(1) Five officials of the Department of State, each of whom shall be designated as a member of the Board by the Secretary and one of whom shall be so designated from among the officials of the Agency for International Development. 
(2) One official of each of the following who in each case shall be designated as a member of the Board by the head of the department or agency concerned: 
(i) The Department of Commerce 
(ii) The Department of Labor 
(iii) The United States Information Agency 
(iv) Such other executive departments and agencies as shall be designated from time to time by the Secretary, each of which shall have one member on the Board. 
(3) The Chairman of the United States Civil Service Commission. 
(c) The Secretary may invite the head of any executive department or other agency which is not represented on the Board by a member of the Board to designate a representative to participate in meetings of the Board whenever matters of substantial interest to such department or agency are to be considered by the Board. 
(d) Each member designated pursuant to subsection (b) (1) or (b) (2), above, and each representative designated pursuant to subsection (c), above, shall be chosen from among the officials of the department or agency concerned who are not below the rank of an Assistant Secretary or who are occupying positions of comparable responsibility, except that the Secretary may designate the Director General of the Foreign Service as one of the members under subsection (b) (1), above. 
(e) The Secretary shall from time to time designate a member of the Board as the chairman of the Board. 
SEC. 22. 
Functions of the Board.
 (a) There are hereby delegated to the Board the functions which prior to the taking effect of Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1965 were vested in the Board of the Foreign Service abolished by that plan by Section 211(b) of the Foreign Service Act of 1946 (22 U.S.C. 826 (b)), exclusive of that part thereof which follows the last semicolon in the Section, and by Section 637(a) of that Act (22 U.S.C. 1007(a)). 
(b) The Board shall perform such additional functions as the Secretary may from time to time delegate or otherwise assign thereto. 
PART III. BOARD OF EXAMINERS FOR THE FOREIGN SERVICE 
SEC. 31. 
Establishment of Board.
 (a) There is hereby established in the Department of State the Board of Examiners for the Foreign Service, hereinafter referred to as the Board of Examiners. 
(b) The membership of the Board of Examiners shall be constituted in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary. The Secretary shall from time to time designate a member of the Board of Examiners as the chairman thereof. Not more than one half of the membership of the Board of Examiners may be made up of officers of the Foreign Service. 
SEC. 32. 
Functions of the Board.
 (a) There are hereby delegated to the Board of Examiners the functions which prior to the taking effect of Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1965 were vested in the Board of Examiners for the Foreign Service abolished by that plan by Sections 212(a), 516(a), and 517 of the Foreign Service Act of 1946 (22 U.S.C. 827(a) ; 911(a); 912). 
(b) The Board of Examiners shall perform such additional functions as the Secretary may from time to time delegate or otherwise assign thereto. 
SEC. 33. 
Direction and supervision.
 All functions delegated or otherwise assigned by or pursuant to this Part shall be performed subject to the direction and supervision of the Secretary. 
PART IV. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
SEC. 41. 
Administrative arrangements.
 (a) The Department of State is hereby designated as the agency which shall provide administrative services and facilities for the Board of the Foreign Service and the Board of Examiners. 
(b) Upon request of the Secretary, the heads of executive departments and agencies shall, as far as practicable, furnish the Board of the Foreign Service and the Board of Examiners information and reports relating to matters within the cognizance of the respective boards. 
SEC. 42. 
Saving provisions.
 (a) Except to the extent that they may be inconsistent with this Order, all determinations, authorizations, regulations, rulings, certificates, orders, directives, contracts, agreements and other actions made, issued, or entered into with respect to any functions affected by this Order and not revoked, superseded, or otherwise made inapplicable before the effective date of this Order shall continue in full force and effect until amended, modified, or terminated by appropriate authority. 
(b) For the purposes of any proceeding or other business which immediately before the effective date of Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1965 or of this Order was pending or in process before the Board of the Foreign Service or the Board of Examiners for the Foreign Service as established by the provisions of the Foreign Service Act of 1946 or by the provisions of Executive Order No. 11240 of August 4, 1965, the bodies established by Parts II and III of this Order shall be deemed to represent continuations of the respective Boards. 
(c) Nothing in Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1965 (30 F.R. 9353) or in this Order or in any Executive order issued before the date of this Order shall be deemed to terminate or impair any of the following: 
(1) The availability to the Director of the United States Information Agency of the authority which was made available to him by Executive Order No. 10522 of March 26, 1954. 
(2) The availability to the Administrator of the Agency for International Development of the authority which was made available to him by Section 2 (b) (3) of State Department Delegation of Authority No. 104 of November 3, 1961, 26 F.R. 10608. 
(3) The availability to the Director of the Peace Corps of the authority which was made available to him by Section 2 (b) (3) of State Department Delegation of Authority No. 85-11A of August 29, 1962, 27 F.R. 9074. 
(4) The availability to the Secretary of State of the authority which was vested in him by Section 42(3) of the Arms Control and Disarmament Act (22 U.S.C. 2582(3)). 
SEC. 43. 
Effective date.
 The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of January 1, 1966. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON 
The White House
December 31, 1965