By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
"These are the times that try men's souls. The summer soldier and the sunshine patriot will, in this crisis, shrink from the service of their country; but he that stands it now, deserves the love and thanks of man and woman. Tyranny, like hell, is not easily conquered; yet we have this consolation with us, that the harder the conflict, the more glorious the triumph." 
These words of Thomas Paine were read to Washington's Army when it was retreating across New Jersey, having tasted nothing but defeat. President Franklin D. Roosevelt also read these words to the American people several months after the unprovoked, unforeseen onslaught at Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941. 
Today we are once again called upon to stand in the cause of freedom and justice. Again we reflect upon those words of Thomas Paine, and upon the steadfast heroism of our Armed Forces--which on that day in 1941 kindled in the hearts of all Americans a bright light of courage rallying them to supreme effort and sacrifice, and sustaining them throughout the terrible, long ordeal until final victory. 
December 7, 1966, will mark the twenty fifth anniversary of that attack on Pearl Harbor, and the Congress by Act of July 9, 1964, has requested the President to issue a proclamation designating December 7, 1966, as Pearl Harbor Day. 
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim December 7, 1966, as Pearl Harbor Day in commemoration of the twenty-fifth anniversary of the attack on Pearl Harbor. 
On this day let us all pause to reflect upon the supreme sacrifice made by so many Americans at Pearl Harbor and during the grim struggle which followed. Let us reaffirm our dedication to the principles of freedom and justice, the cornerstones of our Nation. 
I urge that this twenty-fifth anniversary of Pearl Harbor Day be observed with appropriate ceremonies and activities. I urge that civic and service organizations, public bodies, the Armed Forces, Veterans Organizations, and the media of information and entertainment participate in the commemoration of this anniversary. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this first day of December in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-first. [SEAL] 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
By the President:
DEAN RUSK
Secretary of State