By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
The firefighter has been a part of the American scene since earliest Colonial days. 
From the bucket brigades of Colonial America we have progressed to the modern fire departments and modern firefighting equipment of today. 
But fire hazards have more than kept pace with our advanced technology and social progress. The American fireman today must meet the challenge of fires caused by numerous new chemicals, explosives, combustible fibers, and other dangerous materials. He must be prepared to fight fires in crowded cities and giant buildings, as well as in remote rural communities. Those duties are often performed at great personal risk and sacrifice. 
Furthermore, the services of firemen are among the first to be sought in other emergency situations. Whether to rescue a stranded child, or to give aid and comfort to victims of a flood, hurricane, or other disaster, the American fireman stands ready to serve his community night and day. 
To afford the people of this Nation a special opportunity to express their heartfelt gratitude for the incalculable contributions which our firemen so generously bestow upon us, the Congress by a joint resolution approved May 4, 1966, has requested the President to issue a proclamation designating May 4, 1966, as a Day of Recognition of the personal sacrifices and devotion to duty of firefighters in the United States of America. 
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate Wednesday, May 4, 1966, as a Day of Recognition for Firefighters. 
I invite State and local governments, patriotic, civic, and educational organizations, and the people of the United States generally, to observe that day with appropriate ceremonies in honor of our firemen—both career and volunteer—who, by faithful and dedicated service to their communities, are safeguarding the lives and property of their fellow Americans. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this fourth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninetieth. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
By the President: 
DEAN RUSK 
Secretary of State