By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Four hundred and seventy-five years ago, Christopher Columbus set off from Spain through perilous seas on one of history's most challenging—and most rewarding explorations. His perseverance through storms and testing is part of the living legend of the man and the heritage of this Nation, whose gates he opened.
Like Columbus, we are constantly seeking new paths to the future. At home, we seek to fulfill our dreams of a society of prosperity and justice for all Americans. Abroad, we strive to build a new world of peace, with freedom and dignity for all men.
In acknowledging our legacy from the great explorer, Christopher Columbus, we also honor the Italian nation from which he came. Millions of his countrymen have followed him to the New World. They have helped to forge the cultural, economic, and political strength of this Nation. America is proud of Columbus. America is proud of its people of Italian ancestry who have given so much to make our Nation great.
In tribute to that great Captain, the Congress of the United States, by a joint resolution approved April 30, 1934 (48 Stat. 657), requested the President to proclaim October 12 of each year as Columbus Day for the observance of the anniversary of the discovery of America.
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate Thursday, October 12, 1967, as Columbus Day; and I invite the people of this Nation to observe that day in schools, churches, and other suitable places with appropriate ceremonies in honor of the great explorer.
I also direct that the flag of the United States be displayed on all public buildings on the appointed day in memory of Christopher Columbus.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-second.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON