By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, including section 5 of the United Nations Participation Act of 1945 (59 Stat. 620), as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c), and section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, and considering the measures which the Security Council of the United Nations, by Security Council Resolution No. 232 adopted December 16, 1966, has decided upon pursuant to article 41 of the Charter of the United Nations, and which it has called upon all members of the United Nations, including the United States, to apply, it is hereby ordered:
SECTION 1. The following are prohibited effective immediately, notwithstanding any contracts entered into or licenses granted before the date of this Order:
(a) The importation into the United States of asbestos, iron ore, chrome, pig-iron, sugar, tobacco, copper, meat and meat products, and hides, skins and leather originating in Southern Rhodesia and exported thereforth after December 16, 1966, or products made therefrom in Southern Rhodesia or elsewhere.
(b)Any activities by any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, which promote or are calculated to promote the export from Southern Rhodesia after December 16, 1966, of any of the commodities specified in subsection (a) of this section originating in Southern Rhodesia, and any dealings by any such person in any such commodities or in products made therefrom in Southern Rhodesia or elsewhere, including in particular any transfer of funds to Southern Rhodesia for the purposes of such activities or dealing4 Provided, however, 1 that the prohibition against the dealing in commodities exported from Southern Rhodesia or products made therefrom shall not apply to any such commodities or products which, prior to the date of this Order, had been imported into the United States.
(c) Shipment in vessels or aircraft of United States registration of any of the commodities specified in subsection (a) of this section originating in Southern Rhodesia and exported therefrom after December 16, 1966, or products made therefrom in Southern Rhodesia or elsewhere.
(d) Any activities by any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, which promote or are calculated to promote the sale or shipment to Southern Rhodesia of arms, ammunition of all types, military aircraft, military vehicles and equipment and materials for the manufacture and maintenance of arms and ammunition in Southern Rhodesia.
(e) Any activities by any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, which promote or are calculated to promote the supply to Southern Rhodesia of all other aircraft and motor vehicles, and of equipment and materials for the manufacture, assembly, or maintenance of aircraft or motor vehicles in Southern Rhodesia; the shipment in vessels or aircraft of United States registration of any such goods destined for Southern Rhodesia; and any activities by any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, which promote or are calculated to promote the manufacture or assembly of aircraft or motor vehicles in Southern Rhodesia.
(f) Any participation in the supply of oil or oil products to Southern Rhodesia (i) by any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, or (ii) by vessels or aircraft of United States registration, or (iii) by the use of any land or air transport facility located in the United States.
SECTION 2. The functions and responsibilities for the enforcement of the foregoing prohibitions are delegated as follows:
(a) To the Secretary of State, the function and responsibility of enforcement relating to the importation into, or exportation from the United States of articles, including technical data, the control of the importation or exportation of which is provided for in section 414 of the Mutual Security Act of 1954 (68 Stat. 848), as amended (22 U.S.C. 1934), and has been delegated to the Secretary of State by section 101 of Executive Order No. 10973 of November 3, 1961.
(b) To the Secretary of Commerce, the function and responsibility of enforcement relating to—
(i) the exportation from the United States of articles other than the articles, including technical data, referred to in subsection (a) of this section; and
(ii) the transportation in vessels or aircraft of United States registration of any commodities the transportation of which is prohibited by section 1 of this Order.
(c) To the Secretary of the Treasury, the function and responsibility of enforcement to the extent not delegated under subsections (a) or (b) of this section.
SECTION 3. The Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of Commerce shall exercise any authority which such officer may have apart from the United Nations Participation Act of 1945 or this Order so as to give full effect to this Order and Security Council Resolution No. 232.
SECTION 4. (a) In carrying out their respective functions and responsibilities under this Order, the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Commerce shall consult with the Secretary of State. Each such Secretary shall consult, as appropriate, with other government agencies and private persons.
(b) Each such Secretary shall issue such regulations, licenses, or other authorizations as he considers necessary to carry out the purposes of this Order and Security Council Resolution No. 232.
SECTION 5. (a) The term "United States", as used in this Order in a geographical sense, means all territory subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
(b) The term "person" means an individual, partnership, association, or other unincorporated body of individuals, or corporation.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House
January 5, 1967