By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Nearly a thousand years ago, Indians in what is now Arizona began to mine coal as a fuel for baking pottery. From that remote beginning grew a great industry that contributed mightily to our development as a Nation.
Coal fed the steam engines that conquered our rivers and pushed our frontiers westward. It smelted the iron that built cities and railroads and automobiles. It warmed our homes and provided the current to light them.
It fired—and is still firing—the furnaces of freedom.
Today, our expanding technology imposes new demands on the coal industry to assure its future service as a source of energy, and as a continued source of livelihood for thousands of our citizens.
All Americans look to the leaders of this great industry—management and labor alike—to continue their efforts toward further technological advancement. It is essential to our national well-being that this great natural resource, which has meant much to our history, continue to play a significant role in the development of America's tomorrow.
The Congress, by Senate Concurrent Resolution 20, has asked me to direct attention to this abundant resource. It is my pleasure to do so.
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week of June 18-24, 1967, as National Coal Week. I call upon citizens throughout the Nation to participate in observance of that week, in honor of the National Coal Association
I invite the Governors of the various States to issue proclamations for this purpose. I encourage the various agencies and departments to join the suitable observances of National Coal Week, including public meetings, exhibits, and news-media features.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this fifteenth day of June in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-first.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
By the President: 
DEAN RUSK 
Secretary of State