By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The discovery of America began many centuries ago, but it is not yet ended. It is a continuing experience. Each year, more and more Americans—and friends from other lands—are discovering anew our Nation's bountiful store of natural and cultural treasure.
America is blessed with a wealth of scenic beauty of widely varied kinds. It is rich in historical, cultural, educational, and technological attractions. It is abundant in recreational opportunities and facilities. Its people are hospitable.
As the summer of 1967 approaches, more travelers than ever before are preparing for that experience of discovery.
It is estimated that 140 million United States citizens will journey this year to some part of our broad and diverse Nation for pleasure. In addition, some 9 million visitors from other lands will come here to share the enjoyments which our country offers.
This travel is good for America and its people. In economic terms, it will bring into circulation an estimated $26 billion. Even more important are the memorable contributions which travel makes to the health, happiness and mutual understanding of all people.
It is appropriate that a period of time be set aside in which attention can be focused on the benefits which travel in the United States will bring to the Nation, its citizens and its visitors.
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the period of April 16-22, 1967, to be DISCOVER AMERICA PLANNING WEEK throughout the Nation.
In the interest of making 1967 a better travel year than ever for the United States, I urge all individuals, businesses, industries, and civic and other organizations to give the observance their fullest cooperation and support. This can be done by encouraging Americans and the citizens of other lands to discover and enjoy the scenic, historical, recreational, cultural, educational and industrial attractions of the United States, its territories, and possessions, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this fifteenth day of April in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-first.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
By the President: 
DEAN RUSK 
Secretary of State