By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
On Memorial Day it is customary for Americans to honor the memory of their fellow countrymen who have died in the defense of freedom. Meditating on their sacrifices, we honor not only their memory but also the principles of justice and freedom for which they gave their lives.
Yet honor is not enough. Although we cannot change the pattern of the past, we must do all we can to create a pattern of justice and peace for the future.
The Congress, by a joint resolution of May 11, 1950 (64 Stat. 158), has requested the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United States to observe each Memorial Day as a day of prayer for permanent peace and designating a period during such day when the people of the United States might unite in such supplication.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate Memorial Day, Friday, May 30, 1969, as a day of prayer for permanent peace, and I designate the hour beginning in each locality at 11 o'clock in the morning of that day as a time to unite in such prayer.
I urge the press, radio, television, and all other information media to cooperate in this observance.
I urge also that on this consecrated day, all the people of America offer their prayers to the Almighty to make reason and good will prevail so that peace can once again bless our nation.
As a special mark of respect for those Americans who have given their lives in the tragic struggle in Vietnam, I direct that the flag of the United States be flown at half-staff all day on Memorial Day, instead of during the customary forenoon period, on all buildings, grounds, and naval vessels of the Federal Government throughout the United States and all areas under its jurisdiction and control.
I also request the Governors of the States and of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the appropriate officials of all local units of government to direct that the flag be flown at half-staff on all public buildings during that entire day, and request the people of the United States to display the flag at half-staff from their homes for the same period.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-third.
RICHARD NIXON