WHEREAS proper management and use of the Nation's resources require a continuing and critical review of real property held by the Federal government in order to insure that each such property is promptly released by the agency concerned for appropriate disposition whenever changing program requirements of the agency, or other considerations, obviate the need of the agency for such property; and
WHEREAS existing law, including the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (hereinafter referred to as "the Act"), authorizes the President to prescribe property utilization and disposal policies consistent with and deemed necessary to effectuate its provisions; and
WHEREAS I have determined that it would be in the public interest to enunciate a uniform policy for the Executive branch of the Government with respect to the identification of excess real property holdings, and to establish uniform procedures with respect thereto, in order to insure the prompt identification and release by executive agencies of real property holdings that are no longer essential to their activities and responsibilities:
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 205 (a) of the Act (40 U.S.C. 486 (a)), and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. In conformity with sections 202(b) and (c) of the Act (40 U.S.C. 483 (b) and (c)), the head of each executive agency, consistent with the policies 'et forth in Bureau of the Budget Circular No. A-2, Revised, shall:
(1) institute immediately a vigorous and complete survey of all real property under his control; and
(2) make a report to the Administrator of General Services within sixty days of the date of this order, listing any such property or portion thereof, and state whether it is not utilized, is underutilized, or is not being put to its optimum use.
SEC. 2. The Administrator of General Services shall:
(1) within sixty days of the date of this order, and in implementation of the policies set forth in Bureau of the Budget Circular No. A-2, Revised, establish uniform standards and procedures for the identification of real property that is not utilized, is underutilized, or is not being put to its optimum use, and the heads of other executive agencies shall thereafter conform their policies, regulations, and practices to the provisions of such standards and procedures;
(2) within sixty days of the date of this order, institute, and thereafter conduct on a continuing basis, a survey of the real property holdings of all executive agencies to identify properties which in his judgment are not utilized, are underutilized, or are not being put to their optimum use; and
(3) make reports to the President, listing any property or portion thereof (identified either by Executive agencies or as a result of the Administrator's survey) which has not been reported excess and which in the Administrator's judgment is either not utilized, is underutilized, or is not being put to its optimum use, and which in his judgment should be reported as excess property.
SEC. 3. (a) The reports required of the Administrator of General Services by section 2 of this order shall be made to the President through a Property Review Board, which is hereby established.
(b) The members of the Property Review Board shall be the Director of the Bureau of the Budget, the Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, the Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality, the Administrator of General Services, and such other officers or employees of the Executive branch as the President may from time to time designate. One of the members of the Board shall be designated by the President as Chairman. The Board shall have an Executive Secretary, who shall be appointed by the President.
(c) The Property Review Board shall review the reports made by the Administrator of General Services pursuant to section 2 of this order, as well as other reports to the President making recommendations for the use or disposition of specific parcels of real property, with particular attention to conflicting claims on, and alternative uses for, any property listed in such reports. The Board shall then make such recommendations to the President as it deems advisable regarding the use or disposal of such property.
SEC. 4. As used in this order:
(1) the term "executive agency" means "executive agency" as defined in section 3 (a) of the Act (40 U.S.C. 472(a)):
(2) the term "property", however modified, means real property, or an interest therein, which is covered by the definition of "property" set forth in section 3 (d) of the Act (40 U.S.C. 472(d)), and also lands withdrawn or reserved from the public domain which are utilized by executive agencies for purposes other than national forests or national parks; and
(3) the term "excess property" means "excess property" as defined in section 3 (a) of the Act (40 U.S.C. 472(e)).
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
February 10, 1970