By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
Despite unparalleled technological advances in many areas of our society, uncontrolled fires continue to bring a great deal of tragedy and widespread loss to our Nation. Fires now kill more than 12,000 persons each year and cause annual property losses exceeding $2 billion.
The most shameful aspect of this terrible waste is that it is so unnecessary. Most fires are caused by carelessness, by lack of knowledge, or by hazardous conditions—all of which can be eliminated. But while we all give occasional lip-service to the importance of fire prevention, our deeds too often fail to match our words—and so the loss continues.
But this pattern need not continue. If each of us will only focus his attention on the practical implications of fire prevention in his daily life, a great deal can be done to reduce the destruction caused by fires.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon
, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week beginning October 3, 1971, as Fire Prevention Week.
I call upon all citizens to participate in the fire prevention activities of their various governments, of community fire departments, and of the National Fire Protection Association. Every person should be alert to the ways in which he can eliminate fire hazards. Every citizen should learn how to report fires, how to use basic extinguishing agents and firefighting techniques, and how to react when major fires strike his place of work or his residence. The need to rethink all of these matters is especially important as new technologies change our living environments and the nature of the fire risks we encounter.
I also encourage all Federal agencies, in cooperation with the Federal Fire Council, to conduct effective fire prevention programs, including fire exit drills and other means of training employees, in order to help reduce this waste of life and resources which now plagues our Nation.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand this seventh day of June in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-fifth.
RICHARD NIXON