The opportunity for full participation in our free enterprise system by socially and economically disadvantaged persons is essential if we are to obtain social and economic justice for such persons and improve the functioning of our national economy.
The Office of Minority Business Enterprise, established in 1969, greatly facilitated the strengthening and expansion of our minority enterprise program. In order to take full advantage of resources and opportunities in the minority enterprise field, we now must build on this foundation. One important way of improving our efforts is by clarifying the authority of the Secretary of Commerce (a) to implement Federal policy in support of the minority business enterprise program; (b) provide additional technical and management assistance to disadvantaged businesses; (c) to assist in demonstration projects; and (d) to coordinate the participation of all Federal departments and agencies in an increased minority enterprise effort.
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Functions of the Secretary of Commerce. (a) The Secretary of Commerce (hereinafter referred to as "the Secretary") shall 
(1) Coordinate as consistent with law the plans, programs, and operations of the Federal Government which affect or may contribute to the establishment, preservation, and strengthening of minority business enterprise.
(2) Promote the mobilization of activities and resources of State and local governments, businesses and trade associations, universities, foundations, professional organizations, and volunteer and other groups towards the growth of minority business enterprises, and facilitate the coordination of the efforts of these groups with those of Federal departments and agencies.
(3) Establish a center for the development, collection, summarization, and dissemination of information that will be helpful to persons and organizations throughout the Nation in undertaking or promoting the establishment and successful operation of minority business enterprise.
(4) Within constraints of law and appropriations therefor, and according to his discretion, provide financial assistance to public and private organizations so that they may render technical and management assistance to minority business enterprises, and defray all or part of the costs of pilot or demonstration projects conducted by public or private agencies or organizations which are designed to overcome the special problems of minority business enterprises or otherwise to further the purposes of this order.
(b) The Secretary, as he deems necessary or appropriate to enable him to better fulfill the responsibilities vested in him by subsection (a), may 
(1) With the participation of other Federal departments and agencies as appropriate, develop comprehensive plans and specific program goals for the minority enterprise program; establish regular performance monitoring and reporting systems to assure that goals are being achieved; and evaluate the impact of Federal support in achieving the objectives established by this order.
(2) Require a coordinated review of all proposed Federal training and technical assistance activities in direct support of the minority enterprise program to assure consistency with program goals and to avoid duplication.
(3) Convene, for purposes of coordination, meetings of the heads of such departments and agencies, or their designees, whose programs and activities may affect or contribute to the purposes of this order.
(4) Convene business leaders, educators, and other representatives of the private sector who are engaged in assisting the development of minority business enterprise or who could contribute to its development, for the purpose of proposing, evaluating and coordinating governmental and private activities in furtherance of the objectives of this order.
(5) Confer with and advise officials of State and local governments.
(6) Provide the managerial and organizational framework through which joint or collaborative undertakings with Federal departments or agencies or private organizations can be planned and implemented.
(7) Recommend appropriate legislative or executive actions.
SEC. 2. Advisory Council for Minority Enterprise. (a) The Advisory Council for Minority Enterprise (hereinafter referred to as "the Council'), established by Executive Order No. 11458 of March 5, 1969, shall continue in existence under the terms of this order.
(b) The Council shall be composed of members appointed by the President from among persons, including members of minority groups and representatives from minority business enterprises, who are knowledgeable in this field and who are dedicated to the purposes of this order. The members shall serve for a term of two years and may be reappointed.
(c) The President shall designate one of the members of the Council as the Chairman of the Council.
(d) The Council shall meet at the call of the Secretary.
(e) The Council shall be advisory to the Secretary in which capacity it shall 
(1) Serve as a source of knowledge and information on developments in different fields and segments of our economic and social life which affect minority business enterprise.
(2) Keep abreast of plans, programs, and activities in the public and private sectors which relate to minority business enterprise, and advise the Secretary on any measures to better achieve the objectives of this order.
(3) Consider, and advise the Secretary, and such officials as he may designate, on problems and matters referred to the Council.
(f) For the purposes of Executive Order No. 11007 of February 26, 1962, the Council shall be deemed to have been formed by the Secretary.
(g) Members of the Council shall be entitled to receive travel and expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5701-5708) for persons in the Government service employed intermittently.
(h) The Secretary shall arrange for administrative support of the Council to the extent necessary, including use of any gifts or bequests accepted by the Department of Commerce pursuant to law.
SEC. 3. Responsibilities of Other Federal Departments and Agencies. (a) The head of each Federal department and agency, or a representative designated by him, when and in the manner so requested by the Secretary, shall furnish information, assistance, and reports to, and shall otherwise cooperate with, the Secretary in the performance of his functions hereunder.
(b) The head of each Federal department or agency shall, when so requested by the Secretary, designate his Under Secretary or such other similar official to have primary and continuing responsibility for the participation and cooperation of that department or agency in matters concerning minority business enterprise.
(c) The officials designated under the preceding paragraph, when so requested, shall review and report to the Secretary upon the policies and programs of the minority business enterprise program, and shall keep the Secretary informed of all proposed budgets, plans and programs of his department or agency affecting minority business enterprise.
(d) The head of each Federal department or agency, or a representative designated by him, shall, to the extent provided under regulations issued by the Secretary after consultation with the official designated in paragraph (b) above, report to the Secretary on any activity that falls within the scope of the minority business enterprise program as defined herein and in those regulations.
(e) Each Federal department or agency shall, within constraints of law and appropriations therefor, continue all current efforts to foster and promote minority business enterprises and to support the program herein set forth, and shall cooperate with the Secretary of Commerce in increasing the total Federal effort.
SEC. 4. Reports. The Secretary shall, not later than 120 days after the close of each fiscal year, submit to the President a full report of his activities hereunder during the previous fiscal year. Further, the Secretary shall, from time to time, submit to the President his recommendations for legislation or other action as he deems desirable to promote the purposes of this order. Each Federal department or agency shall report to the Secretary as hereinabove provided on a timely basis so that the Secretary may consider such reports for his report and recommendations to the President. Each Federal department or agency shall develop and implement systematic data collection processes which will provide to the Office of Minority Business Enterprise Information Center current data helpful in evaluating and promoting the efforts herein described.
SEC. 5. Policies and Standards. The Secretary may establish such policies, standards, definitions, criteria, and procedures to govern the implementation, interpretation, and application of this order, and generally perform such functions and take such steps as he may deem to be necessary or appropriate to achieve the purposes and carry out the provisions hereof.
SEC. 6. Definitions. For purposes of this order, the following definitions shall apply:
(a) "Minority business enterprise" means a business enterprise that is owned or controlled by one or more socially or economically disadvantaged persons. Such disadvantage may arise from cultural, racial, chronic economic circumstances or background or other similar cause.
Such persons include, but are not limited to, Negroes, Puerto Ricans, Spanish-speaking Americans, American Indians, Eskimos, and Aleuts.
(b) "State" means the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the territories and possessions of the United States, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.
SEC. 7. Construction. Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any function vested in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal department or agency or head thereof to the authority of any other agency or office exclusively, or as abrogating or restricting any such function in any manner.
SEC. 8. Prior Executive Order. Executive Order No. 11458 of March 5, 1969, is hereby superseded.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
October 13, 1971