By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the United States, Part II of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1970, and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
Section 1. Functions of the Executive Director of the Domestic Council. In addition to the functions heretofore assigned, the Executive Director of the Domestic Council shall assist the President with respect to inter-governmental relations generally. In addition, he shall:
(1) serve as the coordinator for the prompt handling and solution of Federal-State-local problems brought to the attention of the President or Vice President by executive and legislative officers of State and local governments;
(2) identify and report to the President on recurring intergovernmental problems of a Federal interdepartmental and interprogram nature;
(3) explore and report to the President on ways and means of strengthening the headquarters and interagency relationships of Federal field offices as they relate to intergovernmental activities;
(4) maintain continuing liaison with intergovernmental units in Federal departments and agencies; and
(5) review procedures utilized by Federal executive agencies for affording State and local officials an Opportunity to confer and comment on Federal assistance programs and other intergovernmental issues, and propose methods of strengthening such procedures.
Sec. 2. Administrative Arrangements. (a) All Federal departments, agencies, and interagency councils and committees having an impact on intergovernmental relations, and all Federal Executive Boards, shall extend full cooperation and assistance to the Director in carrying out his responsibilities under this order. The Director shall, upon request, assist all Federal departments and agencies with problems that may arise between them and the executive agencies or elected officials of State and local governments.
(b) The head of each Federal department and agency shall designate an appropriate official with broad general experience in his department or agency to serve, upon request of the Director, as a point of contact in carrying out Federal-State-local liaison activities under this order.
Sec. 3. Construction. Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any department, establishment, or other instrumentality of the executive branch of the Federal Government or the head thereof, or any function vested by law in or assigned pursuant to law, to any such agency or head, to the authority of any other such agency or head or as abrogating, modifying, or restricting any such function in any manner.
Sec. 4. Revocation. Executive Order No. 11455 of February 14, 1969, entitled "Establishing an Office of Intergovernmental Relations", is hereby revoked.
Sec. 5. Records, Property, Personnel, and Funds. The records, property, personnel, and unexpended balances, available or to be made available, of appropriations, allocations, and other funds of the Office of Intergovernmental Relations are hereby transferred to the Domestic Council.
Sec. 6. Effective Date. This Order shall be effective thirty days after this date.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
December 14, 1972