By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
Over the years, we as a Nation have become increasingly sportsminded. We are intensely aware of the achievements of our professional athletes and have given them well-deserved recognition. We are especially proud this year of the members of our Olympic teams. And we are also enthusiastic about the fine athletes in our high schools, colleges, and universities.
Yet, despite the talent of these men and women and their initial promise, many of them could not have risen to their current performance levels without the guidance and encouragement of those who have coached them at every stage of their progression. Whether or not they achieve athletic distinction, most of those who participate in organized sports will become better citizens because of the lessons they have learned from their coaches and because of the example which their coaches have set for them.
Coaches are highly qualified teachers—in highly specialized fields. But more than that, they are friends and counselors who help to instill in their charges important attitudes that will serve them all their lives. I know from my own experience how much an understanding coach can do to shape the life of a young person. For a coach can help to teach a student the value of teamwork, discipline, and a healthy attitude toward competition. A coach can help a young person learn how to win gracefully and how to grow from defeat. A coach can help build that moral fiber on which our future as a Nation depends.
The coaches of America, in sports and in many other fields of endeavor, do not work for personal glory. Their satisfaction usually comes through the achievements of others whom they have helped. It is appropriate that our Nation join in according them the recognition and honor which they so richly deserve, for they represent the finest elements in the American character.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon
, President of the United States of America, in consonance with Senate Joint Resolution 213, do hereby proclaim October 6, 1972, as National Coaches Day. I call upon the people of the United States and interested groups and organizations to observe that day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-seventh.
RICHARD NIXON