By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Establishment of the President's Export Council. (a) There is hereby established within the Department of Commerce the President's Export Council, hereinafter referred to as the "Export Council," which shall be composed of a Chairman, a Vice Chairman, and twenty other members representative of business and industry of which eight members shall be selected without regard to geographic considerations and twelve members shall be selected so as to provide appropriate regional representation. The President shall appoint the Chairman, the Vice Chairman, and all other members of the Export Council.
(b) The Export Council shall serve as a national advisory body to the President on export expansion activities.
(c) The Secretary of Commerce (hereinafter referred to as the "Secretary") is directed to insure that the recommendations of the Export Council receive appropriate Governmental consideration.
(d) The Secretary, with the concurrence of the Chairman, shall appoint an Executive Secretary for the Export Council.
SEC. 2. Functions of the Export Council. The Export Council shall, through the Secretary, advise the President, the Council on International Economic Policy (CIEP), and the President's Interagency Committee for Export Expansion (PICEE) on matters relating to export trade. In particular, the Export Council may 
(1) Identify and examine problems regarding the effects of industrial practices on export trade and the need for industry to improve its export efforts, and recommend solutions to these problems.
(2) Survey and evaluate export expansion activities which reflect the ideas of the business community.
(3) Provide liaison among members of the business and industrial community on export expansion matters.
(4) Encourage the business and industrial community to enter new foreign markets and to expand existing export programs.
(5) Advise on plans and actions of the Federal Government involving export expansion policies affecting business and industry.
(6) Provide a forum for business and Government on current and emerging problems and issues in the field of export expansion.
SEC. 3. Subordinate Committees. The Export Council may establish, with the concurrence of the Secretary, an executive committee and such other subordinate committees as it considers necessary in the performance of its functions. Subordinate committees shall be headed by a chairman selected from the membership by the Chairman of the Export Council with the concurrence of the Secretary. Members of the subordinate committees shall be selected by the Secretary from representatives of business and industry.
SEC. 4. Administrative Assistance. As permitted by law and as necessary to carry out the purposes of this order, the Secretary may provide or arrange for administrative and staff services, support, and facilities for the Export Council, including its executive committee and subordinate committees.
SEC. 5. Expenses. Members of the Export Council, including its executive committee and subordinate committees, shall receive no compensation from the United States by reason of their services under this order, but may, to the extent permitted by law, be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5703) for persons in the Government service employed intermittently.
SEC. 6. Federal Advisory Committee Act. The Department of Commerce shall perform such functions with respect to the administration of this order as may be required under the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (Public Law 92-463; 86 Stat. 770).
SEC. 7. Construction. Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any Federal agency, or any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal agency to the authority of any other Federal agency, the Export Council, or its Executive Committee and any of its subordinate committees, or as abrogating or restricting any such function in any manner.
SEC. 8. Revocation. The Interagency Committee on Export Expansion is hereby abolished and Executive Order No. 11132 of December 12, 1963, as amended by Executive Order No. 11148 of March 23, 1964, is hereby revoked.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
December 20, 1973.