By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States and pursuant to the Economic Stabilization Act of 1970, as amended, the Federal Advisory Committee Act, and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. There is hereby established a National Commission for Industrial Peace (hereinafter referred to as the Commission).
SEC. 2. The Commission shall consist of a Chairman to be appointed by the President, and such members representing labor, management, and the public at large as the President may, from time to time, appoint.
SEC. 3. (a) The Commission shall explore methods by which labor and management may best reconcile their differences through the collective bargaining process consistent with the public interest in the outcome of negotiations; investigate means by which the Government may be most helpful in achieving this goal; encourage labor and management representatives in particular industries or sectors to develop and implement procedures to facilitate resolution of disputes and constructive bargaining in the public interest; and make recommendations to the President concerning these and related matters.
(b) The Commission shall establish additional labor-management-public advisory panels with respect to particular sectors of the economy to provide special expertise to the Commission and to develop programs in these particular sectors.
(c) The Commission shall convene at the call of the Chairman or the President or the President's designee.
SEC. 4. The Department of Labor, the Department of Commerce, and the Cost of Living Council, to the extent permitted by law, shall provide support and technical assistance for the Commission; and the Department of Labor shall perform such other functions with respect to the Commission as may be required by the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (Public Law 92— 463; 86 Stat. 770).
SEC. 5. To assist the Commission, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Commerce, the Chairman and the Director of the Cost of Living Council, and the Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service shall be ex officio members available to the Commission for advice and consultation.
SEC. 6. The President's Advisory Committee on Labor-Management Policy is hereby abolished and Executive Order No. 10918 of February 16, 1961, is revoked.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
April 4, 1973.