By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
Nearly 190 years ago, Alexander Hamilton wrote in The Federalist Papers that an independent judicial system is "the best expedient which can be devised in any government, to secure a steady, upright, and impartial administration of the laws." -
The theme of the sixteenth annual observance of Law Day, U.S.A., "Help Your Courts—Assure Justice," makes Hamilton's words particularly timely. For it is in our courts that our Constitution and all our laws take on their practical meaning.
The judicial system is the final arbiter of American justice—and the final guarantor of American democracy. The first principle of the judiciary must always be to interpret the law fairly and without prejudice—the rights of the weak must be equally protected with those of the strong, the rights of the poor with those of the rich, the rights of the guilty with those of the innocent.
We honor the law because it preserves civilized society. We revere the law because it protects the dignity of the individual. And we respect our courts because without them the words of law would be words without meaning.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon
, President of the United States of America, do hereby request the observance of Tuesday, May 1, 1973, as Law Day in the United States of America.
As requested by the Congress, I urge that our people observe Law Day with appropriate public ceremonies, through public bodies and private organizations, in schools, colleges and universities, and in other suitable places. I especially request that the courts, the legal profession, and all media of public information take the lead in such observances so that public understanding of the role of the courts in our society can be broadened. I call upon public officials to display the Nation's flag on public buildings on that day.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-seventh.
RICHARD NIXON