By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 5317 of title 5 of the United States Code, as amended, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. The following offices and positions are placed in level IV of the Executive Schedule:
(1) Administrator, Social and Rehabilitation Service, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.
(2) Administrator, National Institutes of Health, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.
(3) Administrator, Health Services and Mental Health Administration, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.
(4) Special Assistant to the Secretary (Congressional Relations), Treasury Department.
(5) Director, United States Secret Service, Treasury Department.
(6) Director, Office for Drug Abuse Law Enforcement, Department of Justice.
(7) Director, Office of National Narcotics Intelligence, Department of Justice.
(8) Associate Director, Office of Management and Budget, Executive Office of the President.
(9) Assistant Director, Office of Management and Budget, Executive Office of the President.
(10) Assistant to the Secretary of Defense, Legislative Affairs, Department of Defense.
(11) Principal Deputy Director of Defense Research and Engineering, Department of Defense.
(12) Deputy Under Secretary for International Labor Affairs, Department of Labor. 
(13) Counselor to the Secretary of Labor, Department of Labor.
(14) Assistant to the Secretary for Policy Development, Department of Commerce.
SEC. 2. The following offices and positions are continued in level V of the Executive Schedule:
(1) Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), Department of Defense.
(2) Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs, Department of Defense.
(3) Assistant Secretary, Comptroller, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.
(4) Deputy Commissioner of Social Security, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.
(5) Commissioner on Aging, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.
(6) Deputy Director, United States Secret Service, Treasury Department.
(7) Commissioner, Property Management and Disposal Service, General Services Administration.
(8) Deputy Assistant Secretary for Model Cities, Department of Housing and Urban Development.
SEC. 3. Except with respect to the positions enumerated in section 2 of this order, Executive Order No. 11248 of October 10, 1965, as amended, is hereby revoked.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
March 23, 1973.