By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
For nearly 60 years, this Nation has set aside one day each year to recognize the enormous responsibility a mother bears for the development of her children and our future citizens. Mother's Day also provides a special opportunity for a grateful Nation to pay tribute to other contributions that the mothers of America are making to our national life.
Today we are in the midst of a national movement to ensure equal rights for women. This movement has helped bring millions of additional women into the work force, performing highly skilled and challenging jobs—many of them previously filled by men. Great numbers of these women are mothers who are pursuing careers even while they continue to carry out major family responsibilities.
American women have made wide-ranging contributions to our country throughout its history. Pioneer women helped push westward the American frontier. Women have filled countless industrial positions in wartime when men have entered the Armed Forces. In medicine, science, law, education and every other profession, women have helped this country achieve unparalleled successes.
It is appropriate on this Mother's Day that we honor mothers of every generation:
—Older mothers, many of whom are widowed and living alone.
—Mothers in their middle years who began careers after their children, were grown.
—Younger mothers who devote full time to their family responsibilities.
—Mothers who, in addition to their vital role at home, are engaged in volunteer service or employment that is of inestimable value to our economy and the quality of American life.
And particularly, this year, we honor the mothers and wives of those who served in the Vietnam war, especially those whose loved ones lost, their lives or were held as prisoners of war.
The Congress, by a joint resolution of May 8, 1914 (38 Stat. 770), designated the second Sunday of May each year as a day on which to honor all mothers for their countless contributions to their families, their communities, and the Nation.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon
, President of the United States of America do hereby request that Sunday, May 13, 1973, be observed as Mother's Day. I urge Government officials and all citizens to mark that day by displaying the flag of the United States and by participating in appropriate observances.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand this eleventh day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-seventh.
RICHARD NIXON