By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
This day of memorial to those who have given their lives to preserve America's freedom over the centuries has special meaning for us in 1973. The longest and most difficult war in our history is over. The brave men who served so well in that conflict are home again; our valiant prisoners are free at last and reunited with their loved ones—all made possible by the firm resolve of the American people. Thus our prayers for peace this day are also prayers of thanksgiving.
Through our history we have seen despotisms and ideologies come and declare themselves the wave of the future, crushing freedom under foot—but each has passed, and freedom, sure as spring, has pushed up through the ruins again to reaffirm the essential dignity of man.
Americans have been on the side of that dignity in every war we have fought. Today, freedom survives in South Vietnam, and generations hence, the literature of liberty will tell that America demonstrated fully and finally its great commitment to its founding principles by fighting on behalf of just eighteen million people half a world away—and by achieving at last what we fought for.
Those who stood at Hue and Khe Sanh were the spiritual descendants of the heroes of Chosin, Bastogne, Gettysburg and Lexington. The patriotic line continues unbroken. America called, and the answer came back yes.
Now those soldiers and sailors and airmen who have kept freedom's faith look to America—not for thanks, but to know if we have marked their deeds and if, in the way we live our freedom, we are determined to be worthy of those deeds.
Only by working to make war obsolete in the future can we truly redeem the sacrifices of patriots who fell in the wars of the past. The tensions which still exist among nations will yield to negotiation if we are steadfast in our purpose and patient in our endeavor. New relationships are already taking shape, pointing to the creation of a more stable and open world, a world in which hatred and discrimination are replaced by brotherhood and understanding—above all, a world free forever of fear and want and war.
This is the dream for which generations of American fighting men have made the ultimate sacrifice, from the bridge at Concord to the jungles of Vietnam. It can be achieved. Their sacrifices have moved us ever closer to it.
The Congress, by a joint resolution approved May 11, 1950, has requested the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United States to observe each Memorial Day as a day of prayer for permanent peace.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon
, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate Memorial Day, Monday, May 28, 1973, as a day of prayer for permanent peace, and I designate the hour beginning in each locality at 11 o'clock in the morning of that day as a time to unite in prayer.
I urge the press, radio, television, and all other information media to cooperate in this observance.
As a special mark of respect for those Americans who have given their lives in the war in Vietnam, I direct that the flag of the United States be flown at half-staff all day on Memorial Day on all buildings, grounds, and naval vessels of the Federal Government throughout the United States and all areas under its jurisdiction and control.
I also request the Governors of the United States and of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the appropriate officials of all local units of government to direct that the flag be flown at half-staff on all public buildings during that entire day, and request the people of the United States to display the flag at half-staff from their homes for the same period.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-seventh.
RICHARD NIXON