By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
For more than four decades, America has set aside a special day each year to emphasize the importance of child health. 
In these decades, we have written a story of significant progress in child health, as the national infant mortality rate has been sharply cut and many childhood diseases have been conquered or diminished in their severity. For many handicapped children, in particular, advances in surgical techniques and treatment have created new hope for happy, productive lives. 
We can be proud of this progress. Yet, as every parent knows, the threat of serious disease still hangs over the lives of our children, striking fear in the hearts of those who love and cherish them. Our challenge-and the one to which this Administration will be committed-is to continue steadfastly in reducing the health hazards to children through adequate programs which will assure their continued good health throughout childhood. 
The Congress has, by the joint Resolution of May 18, 1928 (36 U.S.C.- 143), requested that the President of the United States annually issue a proclamation declaring the first Monday in October as Child Health Day. 
Now, Therefore, I, Gerald R. Ford,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Monday, October 7, 1974, as Child Health Day. I invite all agencies and organizations concerned with child health to unite upon that day in the observance of such activities as will accelerate our progress towards the promotion and protection of child health. 
In addition, Child Health Day is an appropriate time to salute the work which the United Nations, through its specialized agencies and the United Nations Children's Fund, is doing to improve the health of the children around the world. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-ninth. 
GERALD R. FORD