By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution, statutes, and treaties of the United States, including the Charter of the United Nations, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Part I of Executive Order No. 10422 of January 9, 1953, as amended, are hereby amended to read as follows: 
"1. Whenever the Secretary of State receives, from the Secretary General of the United Nations, the name of and other necessary identifying data concerning each United States citizen employed or being considered for employment by the United Nations, the Secretary of State shall, consistent with the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a) and other applicable law, cause an investigation to be conducted as provided in paragraph 2 of this Part, or forward the information received from the Secretary General to the Civil Service Commission, which shall conduct an investigation, consistent with the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a) and other applicable law, as provided in paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Part. 
"2. With respect to all applicants for short term appointments which will not exceed six months and which are not appointments to United Nations Secretariat professional posts or posts subject to geographical distribution, the Secretary of State shall cause an investigation to be conducted, which investigation shall be limited to a search of the files of the Department of State. If the investigation reveals any derogatory information within the meaning of the standard set forth in Part II of this order, the information received from the Secretary General of the United Nations shall be forwarded to the United States Civil. Service Commission, which shall conduct an investigation. 
"3(a) Whenever the Civil Service Commission receives the information forwarded by the Secretary General to the Secretary of State, the Civil Service Commission shall conduct a National Agency Check. Each National Agency Check shall include reference to the following: (1) Federal Bureau of Investigation files; (2) Civil Service Commission files; (3) Military Intelligence files as appropriate; and (4) files of any other appropriate Government investigative or intelligence agency. 
(b) If the investigation conducted by the Civil Service Commission reveals that a favorable National Agency Check was previously completed, and the investigation conducted by the Civil Service Commission has not disclosed any derogatory information within the meaning of the standard set forth in Part II of this order, completion of a new National Agency Check is not required if: (1) the applicant is or was previously employed by the same or another international organization without an immediately prior break in such service exceeding one year; (2) the applicant is or was a United States Government civilian or military employee, or a United States Government contract employee, without an immediately prior break in such employment exceeding one year; or (3) the applicant is transferred or detailed from an agency of the United States Government pursuant to the provisions of sections 3343, 3581, 3582, 3583, or 3584 of Title 5 of the United States Code.". 
SEC. 2. Paragraph 2(f) of Part II of Executive Order No. 10422 of January 9, 1953, as amended, is hereby amended to read as follows: 
"(f) Knowing membership with the specific intent of furthering the aims of, or adherence to and active participation in, any foreign or domestic organization, association, movement, group or combination of persons, which unlawfully advocates or practices the commission of acts of force or violence to prevent others from exercising their rights under the Constitution or laws of the United States, or of any State, or which seeks to overthrow the Government of the United States or any State or subdivision thereof by unlawful means.". 
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
December 10, 1975.