The program to decentralize Federal policy and decision making and to involve local governments and other interested parties in Federal, State, and local policy and program development requires a capability for deep involvement in the development and advocacy of Administration proposals and policies, and support of their controversial aspects, on the part of certain senior regional officials. 
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution of the United States and Sections 3301 and 3302 of Title 5 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. Civil Service Rule VI is amended by adding the following Section: 
"Section 6.8. Specified Exceptions. Positions in the Department of the Interior whose incumbents serve as the principal representative of the Secretary in their respective regions shall be listed in Schedule C for grades not exceeding grade GS-15 of the General Schedule, and shall be designated Noncareer Executive Assignments for positions graded higher than GS-15. Incumbents of these positions who are, on February 15, 1975, in the competitive service shall not be affected by the foregoing provisions of this Section." 
SEC. 2. Civil Service Rule IX is amended by adding the following: 
"SEC. 9.11. Specified Noncareer Executive Assignments. The regional director, regional administrator, or the Secretary's principal regional representative positions in the Departments of Health, Education, and Welfare, Housing and Urban Development, Transportation and Labor, and those positions in the Environmental Protection Agency shall be designated Noncareer Executive Assignments; and, the Limited Executive Assignments of any incumbents of these positions on February 15, 1975, are converted to Noncareer Executive Assignments. Incumbents of these positions serving in Career Executive Assignments on February 15, 1975, shall not be affected by the foregoing provisions of this Section." 
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
February 15, 1975.