The American Revolution Bicentennial Board has requested that the American Revolution Bicentennial Administration be authorized to perform, without regard to certain provisions of law or limitations of authority, the functions authorized under the act to establish the American Revolution Bicentennial Administration (Public Law 93-179; 87 Stat. 697, hereinafter referred to as the act). I have determined that it would be in furtherance of the purposes of the act to provide such authorization. 
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 11 of the act, and as President of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. The American Revolution Bicentennial Administration is authorized to perform the functions authorized by the act without regard to the following specified provisions of law and limitations of authority: 
(a) section 638(a) of title 31 of the United States Code to the extent that it pertains to hiring passenger motor vehicles. 
(b) section 13 of title 41 of the United States Code. 
(c) section 501 of title 44 of the United States Code. 
(d) Any provision of law or limitation of authority to the extent that such provision or limitation would limit or prohibit: 
(1) selection of, and award of contracts to, a State or local government agency or non-profit organization on a sole-source basis; 
(2) expenditure of not to exceed $10,000 annually of funds received pursuant to contracts under section 2 (f ) of the act for official receptions and representation; and 
(3) expenditure of appropriated funds for transportation and subsistence of volunteers. 
SEC. 2. It is directed that each specific use of the waivers of statutes and limitations of authority authorized by the foregoing provisions of this order shall be made only with the advice of the General Counsel of the Administration, and only when determined in writing by the Administrator (or in his absence by the Deputy Administrator) that such use is specifically in furtherance of the purposes of the act and in the public interest. 
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
February 18, 1975.