The Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 transferred to the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission the licensing and related regulatory functions previously, exercised by the Atomic Energy Commission under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended. 
The exercise of discretion and control over nuclear exports within the limits of law concerns the authority and responsibility of the President with respect to the conduct of foreign policy and the ensuring of the common defense and security. 
It is essential that the Executive branch inform the Nuclear Regulatory Commission of its views before the Commission issues or denies a license, or grants an exemption. 
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution, and statutes of the United States of America, including the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U S.C. 2011 et seq.), and as President of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. (a). The Secretary of State is designated to receive from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission a copy of each export license application, each proposal by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to issue a general license for export, and each proposal by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for exemption from the requirement for a license, which may involve a determination, pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, that the issuance of the license or exemption from the requirement for a license will, or will not, be inimical to or constitute an unreasonable risk to the common defense and security. 
пїЅ(b) The Secretary of State shall ensure that a copy of each such application, proposed general license, or proposed exemption is received by the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Commerce, the Administrator of the United States Energy Research and Development Administration, hereinafter referred to as the Administrator, the Director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, hereinafter referred to as the Director, and the head of any other department or agency which may have an interest therein, in order to afford them the opportunity to express their views, if any, on whether the license should be issued or the exemption granted. 
SEC. 2. Within thirty days of receipt of a copy of a license application, proposed general license, or proposed exemption, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Commerce, the Administrator, the Director, and the head of any other agency or department to which such copy has been transmitted, shall each transmit to the Secretary of State his views, if any, on whether and under what conditions the license should be issued or the exemption granted. 
SEC. 3. The Secretary of State shall, after the provisions of section 2 of this order have been complied with, transmit to the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Commerce, the Administrator, the Director, and the head of any other department or agency who has expressed his views thereon, a proposed position of the Executive branch as to whether the license should be issued or the exemption granted, including a proposed judgment as to whether issuance of the license or granting of the exemption will, or will not, be inimical to or constitute an unreasonable risk to the common defense and security. 
SEC. 4. If the heads of departments and agencies specified in section 2 of this order are unable to agree upon a position for the Executive branch, the Secretary of State shall refer the matter to the Chairman of the Under Secretaries Committee of the National Security Council in order to obtain a decision. In the event the Under Secretaries Committee is unable to reach a decision, the Chairman of that Committee shall refer the matter to the President for his decision. 
SEC. 5. The Secretary of State, after taking the actions required by this order, Shall notify the Nuclear Regulatory Commission of the position of the Executive branch as to whether the license should be issued or the exemption granted, including the judgment of the Executive branch as to whether issuance of the license or granting of the exemption will, or will not, be inimical to or constitute an unreasonable risk to the common defense and security. The Executive branch position shall be supported by relevant information and documentation as appropriate to the proceedings before the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
February 2, 1976.