By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Millions of Americans-men, women, and children-are planning to see and participate in Bicentennial activities. An expected twenty million visitors from abroad will also participate. 
The overwhelming majority of those involved in Bicentennial related activities will travel on the Nation's roadways. Since the beginning of the automobile age, over two million Americans have died on our Nation's highways. This exceeds the combined total of all the fatalities suffered in all the wars that this country has fought since its founding. 
The Congress has requested (H.J. Res. 726) that the necessity for highway safety be recognized by Presidential proclamation so that our Bicentennial year does not become one of unparalleled carnage and slaughter on the highways. 
The Congress has further requested that all Americans participate in monthly safety programs during a National Bicentennial Highway Safety Year, with emphasis on the following specific activities: July--Safer Driving; August--Roadside Obstacle Elimination; September-Save Our Children; October--Signs and Signals; November--Railroad Crossing Protection; December--Alcohol and Problem Drinkers; January--Safety Education; February--Safer Bridges; March--Pedestrian and Bicycle Safety; April--Pavement Marking and Delineation, May--Highway Hazard Removal; and June--Safety Belts and Child Restraints. 
Now, Therefore, I, Gerald R. Ford,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim that the twelve-month period beginning the month of July, 1976 is designated as National Bicentennial Highway Safety Year. 
As requested by the Congress, I call upon Americans in all walks of life; in both the public and private sectors, as individuals, groups, and organizations, to participate in appropriate programs and activities, at home, at work, and on the highway, so that lives may be saved and injuries prevented-symbolizing the rededication of the American people to living and working together in a spirit of mutual cooperation, harmony, dignity, and respect in order to achieve better, healthier, happier lives for all. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundredth. 
GERALD R. FORD