By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
For nearly half of our Nation's two hundred years, the American Red Cross has re­flected the concerns of the American people by dedicating itself to the ease and pre­vention of human suffering. In war and in peace, this Good Neighbor has ministered to the anguish of those who are tragically affected by circumstances beyond their con­trol. It has undertaken to prevent distress and has striven to preserve health and safety. The Red Cross always has been a dependable source of assistance to the Federal Gov­ernment and other organizations and agencies seeking ways to serve our people. 
In this, our Bicentennial Year, we salute the American Red Cross for its history of compassionate concern and its continuing pioneer spirit that brings vigor to the un­ending quest for better ways in which to meet human needs. 
In 1976, the American Red Cross is at the forefront of voluntary citizen action. The services of over one million volunteers have made possible the changes, innova­tions and adaptations necessary to improve its effectiveness. While many traditional facets of its assistance continue to fulfill a basic requirement, the Red Cross has broad­ened its efforts beyond direct service to ease suffering. Today, it actively seeks to help eradicate causes of recurrent, but preventable, health, safety and disaster problems. 
  March is traditionally Red Cross Month. In that time period, more than 1,600 Red Cross chapters will campaign for funds. Other chapters, in partnership with United Way, will be seeking volunteers for their various programs and services. I know that all Americans will show the Red Cross that they too are Good Neighbors. 
Now, Therefore, I, Gerald R. Ford,
 President of the United States of America, and Honorary Chairman of the American National Red Cross, do hereby designate March, 1976, as Red Cross Month. I urge all Americans to give their generous support to the work of their local Red Cross chapters. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of February in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundredth. 
GERALD R. FORD