By the authority vested in me as President of the United States of America by Section 205(a) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 486(a)), and in order to prescribe appropriate policies and directives, not inconsistent with that Act and other applicable provisions of law, for the planning, acquisition, utilization, and management of Federal space facilities, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
1-1. Space Acquisition. 
1-101. Federal facilities and Federal use of space in urban areas shall serve to strengthen the Nation's cities and to make them attractive places to live and work. Such Federal space shall conserve existing urban resources and encourage the development and redevelopment of cities. 
1-102. Procedures for meeting space needs in urban areas shall give serious consideration to the impact a site selection will have on improving the social, economic, environmental, and cultural conditions of the communities in the urban area. 
1-103. Except where such selection is otherwise prohibited, the process for meeting Federal space needs in urban areas shall give first consideration to a centralized community business area and adjacent areas of similar character, including other specific areas which may be recommended by local officials. 
1-104. The process of meeting Federal space needs in urban areas shall be consistent with the policies of this Order and shall include consideration of the following criteria: 
(a) Compatibility of the site with State, regional, or local development, redevelopment, or conservation objectives. 
(b) Conformity with the activities and programs of other Federal agencies. 
(c) Impact on economic development and employment opportunities in the urban area, including the utilization of human, natural, cultural, and community resources. 
(d) Availability of adequate low and moderate income housing for Federal employees and their families on a nondiscriminatory basis. 
(e) Availability of adequate public transportation and parking and accessibility to the public. 
1-105. Procedures for meeting space needs in urban areas shall be consistent with the policies of this Order and shall include consideration of the following alternatives: 
(a) Availability of existing federally controlled facilities. 
(b) Utilization of buildings of historic, architectural, or cultural significance within the meaning of section 105 of the Public Buildings Cooperative Use Act of 1976 (90 Stat. 2507, 40 U.S.C. 612a). 
(c) Acquisition or utilization of existing privately owned facilities. 
(d) Construction of new facilities. 
(e) Opportunities for locating cultural, educational, recreational, or commercial activities within the proposed facility. 
1-106. Site selection and space assignments shall take into account the management needs for consolidation of agencies or activities in common or adjacent space in order to improve administration and management and effect economies. 
1-2. Administrator of General Services. 
1-201. The Administrator of General Services shall develop programs to implement the policies of this Order through the efficient acquisition and utilization of Federally owned and leased space. In particular, the Administrator shall: 
(a) Select, acquire, and manage Federal space in a manner which will foster the policies and programs of the Federal government and improve the management and administration of government activities. 
(b) Issue regulations, standards, and criteria for the selection, acquisition, and management of Federally owned and leased space. 
(c) Periodically undertake surveys of space requirements and space utilization in the executive agencies. 
(d) Ensure, in cooperation with the heads of Executive agencies, that their essential space requirements are met in a manner that is economically feasible and prudent. 
(e) Make maximum use of existing Federally controlled facilities which, in his judgment, are adequate or economically adaptable to meeting the space needs of executive agencies. 
(f) Annually submit long-range plans and programs for the acquisition, modernization, and use of space for approval by the President. 
1-202. The Administrator is authorized to request from any Executive agency such information and assistance deemed necessary to carry out his functions under this Order. Each agency shall, to the extent not prohibited by law, furnish such information and assistance to the Administrator. 
1-203. In the process of meeting Federal space needs in urban areas and implementing the policies of this Order, the Administrator shall: 
(a) Consider the efficient performance of the missions and programs of the agencies, the nature and function of the facilities involved, the convenience of the public served, and the maintenance and improvement of safe and healthful working conditions for employees. 
(b) Coordinate proposed programs and plans for facilities and space with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget. 
(c) Consult with appropriate Federal, State, regional, and local government officials and consider their recommendations for and objections to a proposed selection site or space acquisition. 
(d) Coordinate proposed programs and plans for facilities and space in a manner designed to implement the purposes of this Order. 
(e) Prior to making a final determination concerning the location of Federal facilities, notify the concerned Executive agency of an intended course of action and take into account any additional information provided. 
1-204. In ascertaining the social, economic, environmental and other impacts which site selection would have on a community, the Administrator shall, when appropriate, obtain the advice of interested agencies. 
1-3. General Provisions. 
1-301. The heads of Executive agencies shall cooperate with the Administrator in implementing the policies of this Order and shall economize on their use of space. They shall ensure that the Administrator is given early notice of new or changing missions or organizational realignments which affect space requirements. 
1-302. Executive agencies which acquire or utilize Federally owned or leased space under authority other than the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended, shall conform to the provisions of this Order to the extent they have the authority to do so. 
1-303. Executive Order No. 11512 of February 27, 1970, is revoked.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
August 16, 1978. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:38 a.m., August 17, 1978]