By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Our Nation's forests are one of our greatest resources, covering nearly one-third of our land. The forests are "lands of many uses" providing wood for a multitude of products, protection of watersheds, forage for livestock, food and shelter for wildlife, wilderness areas, and a tremendous range of recreation opportunities for people of every age and income. 
In these times of worldwide inflation , and energy shortages, we can turn to our forests for relief. Forests offer numerous opportunities for low-cost vacations. 
Forest products can have even greater inflation-fighting and energy-saving roles. I recently directed two Federal agencies to examine their forested lands to see what could be done to provide more timber so that the cost of housing could be reduced. 
Discoveries from forest product research are being applied to help fight inflation and save energy. A new house developed by Forest Service scientists will allow us to build houses with 30 percent less structural lumber than is used now for similar structures. New processing techniques reduce the amount of energy needed to make paper and also allow manufacture of more paper from less wood. 
In addition, America's forests make direct contributions to reducing our dependence on foreign sources of energy. This country once ran on the energy provided by burning wood, and we can obtain energy from that resource again. Every year, more and more Americans are turning to efficient wood-burning stoves and furnaces to help in their fight against rising energy costs. 
Wise use of our Nation's forest products results in turn from wise and efficient management of the forests themselves. Planning carefully for all forest uses, minimizing waste, and replenishing harvested trees will sustain our forests and insure the continuity of this tremendous renewable asset. 
In recognition of the value of forests for energy, wood products, and recreation, Congress has designated the third week of October as National Forest Products Week. It is important that we pause to reflect upon the value of our forests to our national well-being. 
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of October 21 through October 27, 1979, as National Forest Products Week and ask all Americans to demonstrate their awareness of the value of forests through suitable activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER