By virtue of the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), a committee to begin the implementation of the recommendations of the President's Commission on the Holocaust for the establishment of a Holocaust Memorial, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
1-1. Establishment of the Council 
1-101. There is established a United States Holocaust Memorial Council. For the purpose of this Order, the "Holocaust" is the systematic and State-sponsored extermination of six million Jews and some five million other peoples by the Nazis and their collaborators during World War II. 
1-102. The membership of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council shall consist of not more than 45 and not less than 25 members as follows: 
(a) The President shall appoint between 15 and 35 members of the Council and shall designate one of these members to Chair the Council and another member to serve as Vice Chairman. The Chairman may recommend to the President a member of the Council to serve as Vice Chairman. 
(b) The President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives are each invited to designate five members of their respective Houses to serve as members of the Council. 
1-2. Functions of the Council. 
1-201. The Council shall recommend to the President and to the Secretary of the Interior ways to implement the approved recommendations of the President's Commission on the Holocaust: (a) the erection of a memorial museum, (b) the establishment of an educational and research foundation, and (c) the establishment of a Citizens Committee on Conscience. 
1-202. The Council shall recommend specific site locations within the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area. Criteria for choosing architectural design should be included in the site recommendations. 
1-203. The Council shall propose a concept for the memorial museum, including general descriptions of the types and categories of exhibits to be displayed in the museum. Similarly, suggested functions and limitations for the educational and research foundation should be recommended. 
1-204. The Council shall recommend the size, composition, and names of distinguished American citizens qualified to serve on the Citizens Committee on Conscience. It shall advise on the specific duties and limitations of such a Committee. 
1-205. The Council shall also advise on the various ways to fund all of these recommendations. Funding proposals should provide that construction costs would be raised primarily from private contributions. 
1-206. In addition, the Council shall recommend appropriate ways for the Nation to commemorate "Days of Remembrance of Victims of the Holocaust." 
1-207. The Council shall submit a final report to the President and to the Secretary of the Interior no later than June 30, 1980. 
1-3. Administrative Provisions. 
1-301. The Secretary of the Interior shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Council with administrative services, facilities, support, and funds necessary for the effective performance of the Council's functions. 
1-302. Members of the Council who are not otherwise employed by the Federal Government may receive compensation for each day such member is engaged in the work of the Council at a daily rate to be determined by the Secretary of the Interior. Such rate shall not exceed the amount payable pursuant to the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended. 
1-303. Members of the Council shall be entitled to travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and 5703) for persons in the Government service employed intermittently. 
1-4. General Provisions. 
1-401. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, except that of reporting to the Congress, which are applicable to the Council, shall be performed by the Secretary of the Interior in accordance with guidelines and procedures prescribed by the Administrator of General Services. 
1-402. The Council shall serve as an interim body and shall terminate on July 3 l, 1980, unless sooner extended. 
JIMMY CARTER
The White House, 
October 26, 1979. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:50 a.m., October 29, 1979]