By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The names of the eight American servicemen who died in a mission of rescue in Iran will forever stand among the names of heroes. They were valiant men. They knew the danger of the task for which they had volunteered, and they were willing to confront that danger because they wished to right a terrible wrong. 
At a time when the delicate, age-old patterns of diplomatic communication that help maintain the peace of the world are under direct attack, we have a great need of men and women ready to make the sacrifices that freedom and security require. The eight who gave their lives while attempting to free their fellow Americans from an illegal and intolerable captivity were such individuals. They knew the price that freedom can demand, and they were prepared to pay it. They laid down their lives for their countrymen, for their Nation's honor, and for the principles of justice and civilization. We mourn their loss; we admire their courage; we respect their dedication; and we reaffirm the principles for which they died. 
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me as Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces (36 U.S.C. 178) do hereby proclaim that, as a mark of respect to the memory of these brave men, the flag of the United States shall be flown at half-staff on all buildings, grounds and naval vessels of the Federal Government in the District of Columbia and throughout the United States and its Territories and possessions upon notification of the provisions of this Proclamation until sunset on Friday, May 9. 
I also direct that the flag shall be flown at half-staff for the same length of time at all United States embassies, legations, consular offices, and other facilities abroad, including all military facilities and naval vessels and stations. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this sixth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER