By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory committee on the domestic and international economic policy of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the President's Economic Policy Advisory Board. The Board shall be composed of members from private life who shall be appointed by the President. 
(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the Board. The Assistant to the President for Policy Development shall serve as the Secretary to the Board. 
Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Board shall advise the President with respect to the objectives and conduct of the overall domestic and international economic policy of the United States. 
(b) The Board shall work with the Cabinet Council on Economic Affairs (composed of the Secretaries of the Treasury, State, Commerce, Labor, and Transportation, and the United States Trade Representative, and the Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget). 
(c) In the performance of its advisory duties the Board shall conduct a continuing review and assessment of economic policy, and shall report thereon to the President whenever requested. 
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Board such information with respect to economic policy matters as it may require for the purpose of carrying out its functions. Information supplied to the Board shall, to the extent permitted by law, be kept confidential. 
(b) Members of the Board shall serve without any compensation for their work on the Board. However, they shall be entitled to travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707). 
(c) Any expenses of the Board shall be paid from funds available for the Expenses of the Domestic Policy Staff. 
Sec. 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the responsibilities of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, shall be performed by the President, except that, the Administrator of General Services shall, on a reimbursable basis, provide such administrative services as may be required. (b) The Board shall terminate on December 31, 1982, unless sooner extended.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
March 2, 1981. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:33 a.m., March 3, 1981]