By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory committee on federalism policy of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the Presidential Advisory Committee on Federalism. The Committee shall be composed of members from among private citizens of the United States, public officials from State and local governments, and members of the Legislative and Executive branches of the Federal government, who shall be appointed by the President. The members shall serve at the pleasure of the President. 
(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the Committee. 
Sec. 2. Functions. The Committee shall advise the President with respect to the objectives and conduct of the overall federalism policy of the United States. 
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Committee such information with respect to federalism issues as it may require for the purpose of carrying out its functions. 
(b) Members of the Committee shall serve without any compensation for their work on the Committee. However, they may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707), to the extent funds are available therefor. 
(c) Any administrative support expenses of the Committee shall be paid from funds available to the White House Office. 
Sec. 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the responsibilities of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, shall be performed by the President, except that, the Administrator of General Services shall, on a reimbursable basis, provide such administrative services as may be requested. (b) The Committee shall terminate on December 31, 1982, unless sooner extended.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
April 8, 1981. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:29 p.m., April 8, 1981]