By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to support and facilitate fund-raising on behalf of voluntary agencies through on-the-job solicitations of Federal employees and members of the uniformed services, and to ensure that the recipient agencies are responsible in the uses of the monies so raised, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall make arrangements for such national voluntary health and welfare agencies and such other national voluntary agencies as may be appropriate to solicit contributions from Federal employees and members of the uniformed services at their places of employment or duty. These arrangements shall take the form of an annual Combined Federal Campaign in which eligible voluntary agencies are authorized to take part. 
Sec. 2. The Director shall establish criteria for determining the eligibility of voluntary agencies that may participate in each of the annual Combined Federal Campaigns. 
Sec. 3. In making arrangements for the Combined Federal Campaign, the Director is authorized, in his discretion, to consult with the Departments and agencies concerned, representatives of the employees and members to be solicited, and, to the extent practicable, representatives of voluntary agencies seeking to participate in a Combined Federal Campaign. 
Sec. 4. The arrangements made by the Director shall (a) ensure that all contributions are voluntary, that there is no coercion, and that individuals have the option of disclosing their contribution or keeping it confidential, (b) designate the specific period during which the annual solicitation may be conducted, and (c) permit only one annual solicitation except in cases of emergency or disaster appeals for which specific provision shall be made by the Director. 
Sec. 5. Subject to such rules and regulations as he shall prescribe, the Director may authorize a local principal combined fund organization to manage a local Combined Federal Campaign. Such authorization shall, if made, ensure at a minimum that the local principal combined fund organization operates subject to the direction and control of the Director and such local Federal coordinating entities as he may establish; manages the local campaign fairly and equitably; consults with and considers advice from interested parties and organizations; and publishes reports of its management of the local campaign. 
Sec. 6. The forms for the solicitation of funds shall clearly specify the eligible agencies and provide a direct means to designate funds to such agencies. Where allocation of undesignated funds by the local principal combined fund organization is authorized by the Director, prominent notice of the authorization for such allocation shall be provided on the solicitation forms. 
Sec. 7. This Order shall not apply to solicitations conducted by organizations composed of civilian employees or members of the uniformed services among their own members for organizational support or for the benefit of welfare funds for their members. Such solicitations shall be conducted under policies and procedures approved by the head of the Department or agency concerned. 
Sec. 8. The Director shall prescribe such rules and regulations as may be necessary to implement this Order. 
Sec. 9. Executive Order No. 10927, as amended, is revoked. Notwithstanding that revocation, directives issued under that Order shall continue in effect until revoked or modified under the provisions of this Order.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
March 23, 1982. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:26 a.m., March 24, 1982]