By the authority vested in me as President and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States of America by Section 301c of Title 37 of the United States Code, and in order to implement incentive pay for submarine duty by Navy enlisted members and officers, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Incentive Pay for Submarine Duty. Section 106 of Executive Order No. 11157, as amended, is further amended to read as follows: 
"Sec. 106(a) As determined by the Secretary of the Navy, a member who is entitled to basic pay, who holds or is in training leading to a submarine duty designator, and who is in and remains in the submarine service on a career basis, is entitled to continuous monthly submarine duty incentive pay, subject to the performance of the required number of years of operational submarine duty (37 U.S.C. 301c(a) (3)-(4)), except as provided by 37 U.S.C. 301c(c). 
"(b) As determined by the Secretary of the Navy, a member who is entitled to basic pay but is not entitled to continuous monthly submarine duty incentive pay is entitled to submarine duty incentive pay for any period during which such member performs frequent and regular operational submarine duty required by orders. 
"(c) To the extent provided for by appropriations, a member of the Naval Reserve who is entitled to compensation under Section 206 of Title 37 of the United States Code, and who performs, under orders, duty on a submarine during underway operations, is eligible for an increase in such compensation equal to one-thirtieth of the monthly submarine duty incentive pay for the performance of that duty by a member of a corresponding grade and years of service who is entitled to basic pay when those orders specify such increased entitlement. Such member is eligible for the increase for each day served, for as long as he is qualified for it, during each regular period of appropriate duty. 
"(d) The Secretary of the Navy is hereby designated and empowered to issue additional implementing regulations with respect to entitlement of regular and reserve officers and enlisted members of the Navy to submarine duty incentive pay, or continuous monthly submarine duty incentive pay.". 
Sec. 2. Effective Date. In accord with Section 701 of Public Law 97-39, the amendments made by this Order shall be effective as of January 1, 1981. 
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
August 18, 1982. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register 2:32 p.m., August 19, 1982]