By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory committee on industrial competitiveness, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the President's Commission on Industrial Competitiveness. The Commission shall be composed of no more than twentyfive members appointed or designated by the President. These members shall have particular knowledge and expertise concerning the technological factors affecting the ability of United States firms to meet international competition at home and abroad. Members appointed from the private sector shall represent elements of industry, commerce, and labor most affected by high technology, or academic institutions prominent in the field of high technology. 
(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the Commission. 
Sec. 2. Functions. The Commission shall review means of increasing the long-term competitiveness of United States industries at home and abroad, with particular emphasis on high technology, and provide appropriate advice to the President, through the Cabinet Council on Commerce and Trade, and the Department of Commerce. 
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Commission such information as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions. 
(b) Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation for their work on the Commission. However, members appointed from among private citizens of the United States may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, to the extent permitted by law and to the extent funds are available therefor. 
(c) The Secretary of Commerce shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide the Commission with such administrative services, facilities, staff and other support services as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions. 
Sec. 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, except that of reporting to the Congress, which are applicable to the Commission, shall be performed by the Secretary of Commerce, in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services.
(b) The Commission shall terminate on September 30, 1984, unless sooner extended.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
June 28, 1983. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:27 a. m., June 29, 1983]