By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Many of the world's people depend on American agriculture to fill their food and fiber needs. Yet, the efficiency of American agriculture and the quality of life for those who work on the land are impaired by a high accident rate. Many farm and ranch families, both owners and workers, suffer great personal sorrow and economic loss each year because of serious injuries or fatal accidents. It is particularly unfortunate that farm children and teenagers often are the victims of these accidents. 
Although great progress has been made in improving safety on farms, much work remains to be done. It is important that community leaders and public officials continue to contribute their time and effort to promoting accident prevention programs. But real progress in safety must start with the individual. Most farm accidents can be prevented if safe work methods are followed and appropriate protective equipment used. 'If our farmers and ranchers develop strong safety habits while at work, in the home, in recreational pursuits, and while driving on the road, our safety record will improve further. 
Now, Therefore, L Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week of September 18 through September 24, 1983, as National Farm Safety Week. I urge all persons who live and work on the Nation's farms and ranches to make safety a daily part of activities on the job, at home or on the highway. I also urge those who work with and service America's farms and ranches to support safety efforts in every way possible. I call upon parents especially to teach their children good safety practices and instill in them a positive attitude toward safety which will serve them well throughout their lives. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 22nd day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventh.
RONALD REAGAN