By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
This great Nation of ours, the richest and most technologically advanced in the world, continues to lead all major industrialized countries in per capita deaths and property loss from fire. 
Each year thousands of American lives are lost, billions of dollars in property are needlessly destroyed, and thousands of persons are permanently disfigured or disabled by burn injuries from preventable fires. 
Obviously, we must continue to address fire prevention as a national priority, and I strongly urge each citizen to make a personal commitment to aid in the reduction of this senseless and tragic waste of precious lives, property, and natural resources from fire. Through a concentrated effort our Nation can substantially reduce the human suffering and economic losses from fire. 
Since most deaths and injuries from fire occur in the home, it is essential that families install and maintain smoke detectors to provide early warning should a fire occur. In addition, each family should establish and practice home fire escape plans. Commercial enterprises and State and local governments should consider installation of fast-response sprinklers to protect lives in residences, hotels, motels, and nursing homes. 
An indispensable ingredient of fire prevention is our professional firefighter. Firefighting is one of our most hazardous occupations. We are indebted to the brave men and women who serve communities across the Nation so bravely—often at the risk of their own safety and sometimes at the cost of their own lives. 
We must also applaud the efforts of our fire chiefs, the National Fire Protection Association, the Fire Marshals Association of North America, the International Association of Fire Chiefs, the International Association of Firefighters, the National Volunteer Fire Council, the International Society of Fire Service Instructors, the Joint Council of National Fire Service Organizations, the National Safety Council, and others for their work to reduce fire losses. These dedicated men and women need and merit our assistance and support. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week of October 9 through 15, 1983, as Fire Prevention Week, 1983. 
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this 6th day of Sept., in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightythree, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.
RONALD REAGAN