By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Asthma and allergic diseases annually result in physical, emotional, and economic hardship for more than thirty-five million Americans and their families. Even though sufficient medical knowledge and resources exist to prevent many asthma-related deaths, thousands of Americans die each year from asthma. Indeed, student absenteeism is due in significant part to asthma and allergic diseases. Furthermore, in some instances, medical patients suffer unfortunate allergic reactions to prescribed medicines. 
It is estimated that the American people pay $2 billion per year in medical bills directly attributable to the treatment and diagnosis of asthma and allergic diseases and another $2 billion per year as a result of the indirect social costs of such illnesses. 
Recent developments in the study of immunology enable health care providers to diagnose and treat asthma and allergic diseases more effectively. Increased public awareness of these scientific advances in immunology will help dispel many of the common misconceptions concerning these diseases and their victims. With the determination and support of our citizens, scientists hope that continuing progress will eventually lead to the control and prevention of these life-limiting and sometimes life-threatening diseases. 
In recognition of the significant importance of increased public awareness of recent advancements in the study of immunology to the health and well-being of millions of American children and adults, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 244, has designated the week beginning on May 6, 1984, as "National Asthma and Allergy Awareness Week," and authorized and requested the President to issue an appropriate proclamation. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning May 6, 1984 as National Asthma and Allergy Awareness Week. I call upon the people of the United States to observe such week with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 11th day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightyfour, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.
RONALD REAGAN