By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The United States has a long tradition of sharing its rich agricultural abundance and technical expertise with those in need, and of leading the worldwide effort to eliminate hunger. All nations are not equally endowed with food potential, and the struggle against hunger continually presents us with challenges which sometimes appear overwhelming. However, we will not be diverted from our intention to achieve victory over world hunger. 
The United States is dedicated to the proposition that real progress in eliminating hunger will be realized when more nations are able to produce or purchase enough food for their own people. It is heartening that the resurging economy of the United States is helping other nations toward new economic expansion, with lower rates of inflation and rising output in many countries. 
This Nation—indeed, all nations—should move forward with domestic policies that encourage growth. At the same time we must vigorously resist policies which inhibit growth or discourage free and equitable international trade in food products. 
Since the enactment of the Eisenhower Food for Peace Program in 1954, the American people have provided more than $33 billion in food aid to 164 nations. Thousands of technical experts have been sent to Africa, Asia, Latin America, and the Middle East to assist in the development of agricultural projects. We have trained tens of thousands of agriculturalists from developing nations to help them in building a sound economic foundation in their countries. 
These efforts by other industrial countries and the United States have yielded promising results. Food production per person has increased 21 percent in the developing countries since 1954. Consumption of calories per capita has increased 7.5 percent since 1963. Unfortunately, Africa's progress in food production or the consumption of calories per capita have not shown equally encouraging results. 
This year, the United States supports efforts by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations to recognize the role of women in agricultural development in the Third World. In some less developed countries, women and children constitute 80 percent or more of the agricultural work force—yet, rarely aided by modern agricultural technology, research or adequate training. We strongly support efforts to improve the efficiency of their agricultural techniques. 
In recognition of the need to increase public awareness of world hunger, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 332, has proclaimed October 16, 1984, as "World Food Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of that day. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby call upon the people of the United States to observe October 16, 1984, as World Food Day with appropriate activities to explore ways in which our Nation can further contribute to the elimination of hunger in the world. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.
RONALD REAGAN