By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of the United States, including the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the Presidential Advisory Council on the Peace Corps. 
(b) The Council shall be composed of no more than 15 persons, who shall be appointed by the President. The President shall designate a member to serve as Chairman of the Council and a member to serve as Vice Chairman. Members shall serve at the pleasure of the President. 
Sec. 2. Functions (a) The Council shall advise the President and the Director of the Peace Corps on initiatives needed to promote the purposes of the Peace Corps Act and actions of the Peace Corps which do so, 
(b) The Council shall submit simultaneously to the President and the Director of the Peace Corps an annual report on its review of Peace Corps activities, its recommendations concerning those activities, and the activities of the Council. 
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) The heads of the Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Council with such information as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions. 
(b) Members of the Council shall not receive compensation for their work on the Council. While engaged in the work of the Council, members may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707). 
(c) The Director of the Peace Corps shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide the Council with such administrative services, funds, facilities, and other support services as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions. 
Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act which are applicable to the Council, except that of reporting annually to the Congress, shall be performed by the Director of the Peace Corps, in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
(b) The Council shall terminate two years from the date of this Order, unless sooner extended.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
March 22, 1984. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:18 a.m., March 23, 1984]