By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Few Americans have heard of tuberous sclerosis, but for an estimated 10,000 of us, this disease and its devastating effects are all too real. For these people, life is a perpetual struggle with convulsive seizures, mental retardation, tumors throughout the body, and other physical handicaps. Because tuberous sclerosis is hereditary, its threat extends to future generations; children of those afflicted with it stand a 50 percent chance of developing the disease themselves. 
Tuberous sclerosis has no known cause or cure. Early detection, accurate diagnosis, careful use of anticonvulsant drugs, and support of family and friends can go far in helping a victim cope with the disease. Research to help us learn how to treat, cure, and prevent this dread disease is being supported by the National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke and by two voluntary health agencies-the National Tuberous Sclerosis Association and the Tuberous Sclerosis Association of America. Through this sponsorship, scientists across America are working diligently to find a way to track down the gene responsible for the disease, to develop more effective drug therapies for patients, and to discover ways to improve diagnosis. 
I urge all Americans to become aware of the pressing national need to overcome the scourge of tuberous sclerosis. In doing so, we can all help our courageous fellow citizens to lead more comfortable and productive lives at home, at school, or in the workplace. 
To enhance the public's understanding of the seriousness of this disease, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 148, has authorized and requested the President to designate the week of May 6 through 13, 1984, as "National Tuberous Sclerosis Week." 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of May 6 through 13, 1984, as National Tuberous Sclerosis Week. I call upon all government agencies, health organizations, communications media, and the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightyfour, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.
RONALD REAGAN