By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The history of the United States is the history of women and men working together to realize their dreams. In times of war and peace, of hardship and prosperity, we have shared disappointments and achievements. 
Today there are more opportunities open to women than at any time in our history, and women are using these opportunities to excel in every field. But even before our own era, courageous and persevering women had achieved leading roles in all walks of life. Women led reform movements, including the movement for women's suffrage; they ran businesses, entered the professions, and pioneered in activities such as art, literature, and science. These achievements have not always received the recognition they deserve, and one of the purposes of Women's History Week is to encourage all Americans to remember this sometimes forgotten part of our heritage. By doing so, we will encourage the women of today to pursue their dreams wherever they lead—even to the stars, as our women astronauts have done. 
But in remembering the achievements of especially talented individuals, we should not forget the immense contribution made to our Nation by millions of women whose names we will never know. These women raised families, worked part-time or full-time to support them, and passed on their love, hopes, and dreams to the next generation. They crossed deserts and mountains alongside their families and in times of national emergency, such as war, they undertook vital' work in factories and on farms which enabled our Nation to survive and prosper. They were known only to their families, friends, and neighbors, but their influence on their communities was enormous. Whatever greatness our Nation has achieved, we owe in very large measure to them, and we should never overlook or forget their contribution. 
In recognition of the many vital contributions of women to our Nation's history, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 50, has designated the week beginning March 3, 1985, as "Women's History Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning March 3, 1985, as Women's History Week. I invite the Governors of the States, the chief officials of local governments, the scholars of our institutions of education, and Americans everywhere to mark this occasion with appropriate ceremonies and activities recognizing the contributions of women to our Nation and our culture. 
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.
RONALD REAGAN