By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, including section 722 of the International Security and Development Cooperation Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-83) (the Act), Chapter V of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1985 (Public Law 99-88) (the Supplemental Act), the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.) (the FAA), including but not limited to sections 621, 632, and 633 thereof (22 U.S.C. 2381, 2392, 2393), and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is hereby established the Nicaraguan Humanitarian Assistance Office (the Office). 
(b) The Office shall, unless otherwise extended, terminate on April 1, 1986, or one week following completion of disbursement of the funds made available under section 722(g) of the Act by Chapter V of the Supplemental Act, whichever date is later. 
Sec. 2. Functions. The Office shall, in accordance with the FAA, section 722(g) of the Act, Chapter V of the Supplemental Act, and the provisions of this Order, administer the program of humanitarian assistance to the Nicaraguan democratic resistance authorized thereunder. The Office may, to the extent permitted by law and the provisions of this Order, enter into such grant agreements and contracts and take such other actions as may be necessary to implement the program effectively. 
Sec. 3. Policy guidance. In accordance with the FAA, and to the end that such programs and activities are effectively integrated with and supportive of the foreign policy of the United States, the Secretary of State shall be responsible for the continuous supervision and general direction of the programs and activities carried out by the Office. 
Sec. 4. Administration. (a) At the head of the Office there shall be a Director, who shall be an officer of the United States designated by the President. The Director shall exercise immediate supervision and direction over the Office. 
(b) The Director may, to the extent permitted by law, including but not limited to section 621 of the FAA (22 U.S.C. 2381), employ such staff from Federal agencies as may be necessary, except that the staff shall be limited to twelve supervisory personnel, plus appropriate support personnel. No personnel from the Department of Defense or the Central Intelligence Agency may be detailed or otherwise assigned to the Office. 
(c) The Secretary of State shall provide the Office with such administrative services, facilities, and other support as may be necessary for the performance of its functions. Funds made available under section 722(g) of the Act by Chapter V of the Supplemental Act shall be provided to the Office through the Department of State. 
(d) At the request of the Director, and to the extent otherwise permitted by law, the agencies of the Executive Branch shall provide such information, advice, additional administrative services, and facilities as may be necessary for the fulfillment of the Office's functions under this Order. 
Sec. 5. Classification Authority. In accordance with section 1.2(a)(2) of Executive Order No. 12356 of April 2, 1982, the Director is hereby designated as an agency official with authority to classify information originally as Top Secret. The Director shall ensure that the Office establishes and maintains controls for the safeguarding of classified information as provided in part 4 of that Order. 
Sec. 6. Delegation of Functions. Subject to the provisions of this Order and Executive Order No. 12163 of September 29, 1979, as amended, and to the extent necessary to the efficient and effective implementation of this Order, there are hereby delegated to the Director the functions conferred upon the President (and not reserved to him) by sections 632(a) and 635(b) of the FAA and other provisions of that Act (including but not limited to those set forth in Part III of the FAA) that relate directly and necessarily to the conduct of the programs and activities vested in or delegated to the Director. 
Sec. 7. Procurement. (a) In accordance with the provisions of section 633 of the FAA (22 U.S.C. 2393), it is hereby determined to be in furtherance of the purposes of the FAA that the functions authorized thereunder, as set forth in section 2 of this Order, may be performed by the Director without regard to the provisions of law and limitations of authority specified in Executive Order No. 11223 of May 12, 1965, as amended.
(b) It is directed that each specific use of the waivers of statutes and limitations of authority authorized by this section shall be made only when determined in writing by the Director that such use is necessary to the efficient and effective implementation and in furtherance of the purposes of this Order and in the interest of the United States. 
Sec. 8. Reports. The Director shall assist the President in preparing the reports required by section 722(j)(2) of the Act, including a detailed accounting of the disbursements made to provide humanitarian assistance with the funds provided pursuant to section 722(g) of the Act. The Director shall keep the President informed about the implementation of the program.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
August 29, 1985. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 2:25 p.m., September 3, 1985]