By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The crowning wonder of our marvelous universe is the human brain. This organ of awesome complexity usually functions so dependably that thoughts can be transmitted from one person to another across the centuries, across the barriers of language, custom, and place. In all our daily transactions, we assume that others will comprehend and respond to the symbols of logic and language that are processed through the instrumentality of the brain. 
Yet many Americans do not always find our language, numbers, and symbols natural and logical. They exhibit learning disabilities. In a sense, they are most aware of the deep complexity of our mental processes, for they must struggle to make the connections that, for most of us, are effortless habits. 
While science still knows little about the biochemical and structural differences in brain function that may account for the various anomalies we call learning disabilities, our educators are finding alternative methods of teaching which help the learning disabled enjoy a greater use of their mental potential despite the difficulties they may face in reading, calculating, and other forms of mentation and expression. Meanwhile, scientific observation of the difficulties and the successes of learning-disabled persons is helping researchers gain greater understanding of both the learning process and the functioning of the brain. 
Awareness of learning disabilities is one of the most important advances in education in recent years. As more and more Americans become aware, our citizens with learning disabilities will have even greater opportunity to lead full and productive lives and to make a contribution to our society. 
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 287, has designated the month of October 1985 as "Learning Disabilities Awareness Month" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in honor of this observance. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of October 1985 as Learning Disabilities Awareness Month, and I call upon all Americans to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eleventh day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and tenth.
RONALD REAGAN