By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, including Section 1633 of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1985 (Public Law 98-525), and in order to establish an advisory committee to review the inertial confinement fusion program, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. There is established the Technical Review Group on Inertial Confinement Fusion. The Technical Review Group shall be composed of two members, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, who shall also serve as Chairman , and the Director of the Office of Energy Research of the Department of Energy. 
Sec. 2. (a) The Task Force shall review thoroughly the accomplishments, management, goals, and anticipated contributions of the defense inertial confinement fusion program and shall advise the President and the Congress concerning its findings of fact and recommendations regarding priorities for future work in the inertial confinement fusion program. In conducting its review and recommendations, the Technical Review Group shall contract with an appropriate independent, nationally recognized organization of scientists to study the inertial confinement fusion program and to submit its evaluation to the Technical Review Group for consideration in preparation of its reports. 
(b) The Technical Review Group shall submit an interim report to the President and the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives before June 1, 1985, and shall submit its final report before May 1, 1986. 
Sec. 3. (a) The heads of Executive departments and agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Technical Review Group with such information as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions. 
(b) Members of the Technical Review Group shall serve without compensation for their work on the Group. 
(c) The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall, subject to the availability of funds, provide the Technical Review Group with such administrative services, facilities, staff, and other support services as may be necessary. 
Sec. 4. The Technical Review Group shall terminate upon the submission of its final report.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
April 14, 1985. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 2:35 p.m., April 15, 1985]