By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, including the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. II), and in order to establish an advisory committee to recommend initiatives by which the private and public sectors may cooperate in promoting the safety of children, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the President's Child Safety Partnership. 
(b) The Partnership shall be composed of not more than 26 members designated or appointed by the President from among citizens of the United States, and shall include the Attorney General, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Secretary of Education. The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the Partnership. 
Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Partnership shall examine issues and make recommendations to the President on preventing the victimization and promoting the safety of children in the United States. 
(b) The Partnership may conduct such studies, inquiries, hearings, and meetings as may be necessary to carry out its functions. The focus of the Partnership's inquiries and reports shall be on recommendations for public-private cooperation to encourage and facilitate private sector involvement in child safety efforts, including activities appropriate for action by service organizations, schools, businesses, charitable organizations, and public safety organizations. 
(c) The Partnership shall report to the President from time to time as requested and shall submit its final report by April 29, 1987. 
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Partnership such information as it may require to carry out its functions. 
(b) Members of the partnership shall serve without compensation for their work on the Partnership. However, members appointed from among private citizens, including employees from State and local government, may, subject to the availability of funds, be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707). 
(c) The Attorney General shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Partnership with such administrative services, funds, facilities, staff, and other support services as may be necessary for the performance of its functions. 
Sec. 4. General. (a) The Departments of Justice, Health and Human Services, and Education are directed to join with the Partnership to encourage the development of public/private sector initiatives to prevent and respond to the victimization of children. 
(b) Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, except that of reporting to the Congress, which are applicable to the Partnership, shall be performed by the Attorney General, in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
(c) The Partnership shall terminate on April 29, 1987, or 60 days after submitting its final report, whichever is earlier.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
April 29, 1985. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:28 p.m., April 29, 1985]