By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
We are a nation of families. We take pride in our families, and we value family life. The family is the most basic unit in our society. It teaches us the values of loyalty, independence, responsibility, and mutual love. We look to our families for care, support, and protection. Strong, stable families are the vital cells of a society that is healthy and free. But to remain strong, families require nurturing; their bonds must be reinforced. A family reunion is a wonderful way to strengthen and preserve those family ties. 
A family reunion can be a time of growth and learning, offering us an opportunity to gain a new perspective on ourselves and others. Each family has its own history, personality, sense of accomplishment, and dreams for the future. The family reunion provides an ideal setting for renewing these shared riches of the spirit. It is a time to learn, to laugh, and to renew the ties of affection. Family reunions bridge generations and remind us of our roots. I encourage all families to use the family reunion to tap these roots again and to renew their pledge of love and concern for each other. I also ask families to reach out to those who lack the support of families and to share their love and spirit with them. 
In recognition of the importance of family reunions, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 274, has authorized and requested the President to designate the weekend of August 1, 1986, through August 3, 1986, as "National Family Reunion Weekend." 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the weekend of August 1, 1986, through August 3, 1986, as National Family Reunion Weekend. I call upon the people of the United States to observe the occasion with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eleventh.
RONALD REAGAN