By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The year 1986 marks the centennial of the Statue of Liberty, recognized throughout the world as a symbol of the United States of America and its promise of liberty and justice for all. Our Nation has been greatly favored by the presence here of peoples from many lands and races and cultures. Each group has made a unique contribution to the rich fabric of American society. Our Nation's historically Black cob leges and universities have played a special role in America's growth and development. These institutions have a proud heritage and tradition of providing opportunities for individuals to develop to their fullest potential and to utilize their talents to the utmost for the benefit of our society. 
For more than one hundred twenty-five years, historically Black colleges and universities have helped students, many from underprivileged backgrounds, to obtain the advantage of a higher education. Today, as in the past, the majority of our Nation's black citizens in the fields of medicine, law, engineering, business, education, and the military have received their degrees from these institutions. 
To acknowledge the many contributions and successes of these historically Black colleges and universities, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 357, has designated the week of September 15 through September 21, 1986, as "National Historically Black Colleges Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this commemoration. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of September 15 through September 21, 1986, as National Historically Black Colleges Week. I urge all Americans to express our respect and admiration for the outstanding academic and social accomplishments of our Nation's Black institutions of higher education. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eleventh.
RONALD REAGAN