By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation 
1. On September 7, 1985, I announced my decision to take action in response to quantitative restrictions on imports of United States leather and footwear maintained by Japan, in the event that a satisfactory settlement of the matter was not achieved by December 1, 1985. I have determined pursuant to Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (the Act) (19 U.S.C. 2411), that these restrictions deny benefits to the United States arising under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) (61 Stat. (pts. 5 and 6)), are unreasonable, and constitute a burden or restriction on United States commerce. Discussions with Japan concerning the elimination of these restrictions have resulted in an understanding as to the appropriate course of action to be taken by both the United States and Japan. Accordingly, pursuant to Section 301 of the Act, I have determined to accept compensation from Japan and also to increase duties on certain imports of leather and footwear from Japan. 
2. Section 301(a) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 2411(a)) authorizes the President to take all appropriate and feasible action to obtain the elimination of an act, policy, or practice of a foreign government or instrumentality that 1) is inconsistent with the provisions of, or otherwise denies benefits to the United States under, any trade agreement; or 2) is unjustifiable, unreasonable, or discriminatory and burdens or restricts United States commerce. Section 301(b) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 2411(b)) also authorizes the President to suspend, withdraw, or prevent the application of benefits of trade agreement concessions with respect to, and to impose duties or other import restrictions on the products of, such foreign government or instrumentality. Pursuant to Section 301(a) of the Act, such actions can be taken on a discriminatory basis solely against the foreign government or instrumentality involved. Section 301(d)(1) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 2411(d)(1)) authorizes the President to take action on his own motion. 
3. I have decided, pursuant to Sections 301 (a), (b), and (d)(1) of the Act, to increase United States import duties on the articles provided for in the Annex to this proclamation that are the product of Japan. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, acting under the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes of the United States, including but not limited to Section 301 (a), (b), and (d)(1) and Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2483), do proclaim that: 
1. Subpart B of part 2 of the Appendix to the TSUS is modified as provided in the Annex to this proclamation. 
2. The United States Trade Representative (USTR) is hereby authorized to suspend, modify, or terminate the increase in United States import duties on any of the articles covered by the Annex to this proclamation, upon the publication in the Federal Register of his determination that such suspension, modification, or termination is justified by further actions taken by Japan with respect to this matter, or is appropriate to carry out the understanding between the United States and Japan, or is otherwise appropriate, taking into account relevant domestic production and employment in the United States. 
3. This proclamation shall be effective with respect to articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after the date that is 15 days after the date on which this proclamation is signed. 
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this 16th day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and tenth.
RONALD REAGAN 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:42 a.m., March 18, 1986]