By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
National Hispanic Heritage Week provides an opportunity for all Americans to recognize and celebrate the great and varied contributions Hispanic Americans have made and continue to make to this country. 
As a Nation of immigrants founded on universal ideals, America's vision of freedom based on God-given rights embraces all the people of the world. Throughout our history, we have been fortunate in attracting to our shores immigrants from every part of the world. Their values, energies, and spirit have enriched America's culture and added to her dynamism and prosperity. 
No part of our national mosaic better exemplifies this tradition than America's numerous citizens of Hispanic heritage. Their love of freedom is reflected daily in their abundant economic, cultural, and political vitality. Their profound religious faith nourishes the spirit of a Nation whose first principle is the God-given dignity of the human person. Through hard work Hispanics have done much to contribute to the betterment of their families and their communities. Many have played important roles as leaders in American society. Their ties to the nations of Latin America form an important part of the bond between America and its neighbors to the South, many of whom are enjoying a renaissance of freedom and democratic government. The roots of their culture bind us also to democratic Spain and its great cultural legacy. For all these reasons, we rejoice in the strength and inspiration America derives from its citizens of Hispanic heritage. 
In recognition of the many achievements of the Hispanic American Community, the Congress, by Joint Resolution approved September 17, 1968 (Public Law 90-498), authorized and requested the President to issue annually a proclamation designating the week that includes September 15 and 16 as National Hispanic Heritage Week. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning September 14, 1986, as National Hispanic Heritage Week, in recognition of the Hispanic individuals, families, and communities that enrich our national life. I call upon the people of the United States, especially the educational community, to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eleventh.
RONALD REAGAN