By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The pleasure that comes from reading is usually the magnet that draws people to practice and improve their reading skills. And the wide distribution of these skills not only enriches those who possess them but is a pillar of strength for a self-governing Nation. Yet many of America's 66 million people under the age of 18 need encouragement and direction to improve their reading skills to the point where they can become functionally literate and properly informed adults. Illiteracy and limited literacy cause much pain, frustration, and humiliation. And because their victims cannot reach their full productive potential, the economy is billions of dollars the poorer. 
Traditionally, Americans have recognized problems in society and worked at applying practical solutions. Over the past two decades, dedicated volunteer efforts have enabled millions of children to discover the joy of reading. Through a variety of imaginative programs, thousands of children have been given the motivation and the practical help they need to unlock the treasure house of the printed page. Doors have been opened to richer lives. Currently, more than 100,000 volunteers are giving of their time and talents to open these doors of opportunity to young people who long to experience the joy of reading. But there is a need for still more volunteers who wish to help others and experience the deep satisfaction of knowing they have transformed the lives of others and set them on the path to discovery, understanding, and delight. Yes, for those who can read, reading is fun. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 286, has designated April 20 through April 26, 1986, as "National Reading is Fun Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim April 20 through April 26, 1986, as National Reading is Fun Week. I invite the Governors of every State, local officials, and all Americans to observe this week by supporting programs that help young people to acquire the skill of reading that leads to the joy of reading. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fourth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and tenth.
RONALD REAGAN