By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
To remind Americans of the need to keep safety in mind while on the Nation's waters, one week out of every year is designated as National Safe Boating Week. This year, it is estimated, over 68 million Americans will enjoy boating on our country's lakes, rivers, streams, oceans, and bays. Boating is fun and relaxing, but the marine environment is not without hazards. Therefore, it is imperative that all boaters learn and practice safe boating techniques. 
The theme of this year's National Safe Boating Week, "Be Smart! Take a Boating Course!," emphasizes the importance of learning safe ways to enjoy the sport of boating. As each year passes, our Nation's waters become increasingly crowded with new and exciting craft. In addition to the traditional sailboats, cruisers, canoes, and rowboats, we now have jet-powered water skis, sailboards, and high-speed power boats whose capabilities rival the racing craft of yesteryear. 
Because of these developments, it is vital that all boaters understand the courtesies and basic principles of boating safety. Using a boat requires knowledge and experience, just like operating an automobile. Uneducated boaters not only expose themselves to hazards, but also jeopardize their passengers and other boaters. A lack of knowledge, coupled with fatigue, alcohol or drug use, or faulty equipment, can produce fatal results. Since the majority of boating accidents are due to operator error, education is the key to their prevention. 
In recognition of the need for boating safety, the Congress, by joint resolution approved June 4, 1958, as amended (36 U.S.C. 161), authorized and requested the President to proclaim annually the week commencing on the first Sunday in June as National Safe Boating Week. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning June 7, 1987, as National Safe Boating Week. I invite the Governors of the States, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa, and the Mayor of the District of Columbia to provide for the observance of this week. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of January, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eleventh.
RONALD REAGAN