By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Berlin, one of the world's great cities and the largest German city, this year observes its 750th anniversary. This is cause for celebration for Berliners and for all Germans, and also for the people of the United States and the rest of the world. 
The history and character of Berlin and its people give powerful testimony about human nature and its capabilities. After three-quarters of a millennium and many shocks and reversals through the ages, Berlin is yet a young city—young with all the capacity of the human spirit to renew itself, to strive and to seek, to build anew and create, and, most of all, to hope. Time and again, Berlin has overcome desolation and isolation with will, energy, and courage. Even now, its spirit towers over the wall that presently divides the city. 
Today Berlin remains close to the spiritual center of the Western world. Americans have a special affinity for Berlin that goes beyond formal political or economic ties, because we feel a kinship with its spirit of strength and creativity and because we see our own hopes and ideals mirrored in the deep attachment of its people to freedom and its blessings. Thousands of Americans-scholars, service men and women and their families, business people, diplomatic personnel, and so on—live in Berlin and make vital contributions to the life of the city. We have helped Berlin grow, and we have shared its spirit. 
As we near the end of the 20th century, we see that Berlin, though ancient, is a city of the future. We know that the courageous and freedom-loving spirit that has guided so much of Berlin's past will help ensure a future of freedom for all mankind in the years to come. "Berlin bleibt doch Berlin-Berlin is still Berlin." 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby recognize Berlin's 750th Anniversary, 1987. I call upon the people of the United States to join in celebrating and honoring Berlin's 750th anniversary with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightyseven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eleventh.
RONALD REAGAN