By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Child abuse is a tragedy that can and must be prevented. Yearly estimates of the number of children who are suspected victims of child abuse or neglect run into the millions. Each year, maltreatment kills several thousand children and inflicts long-term physical, mental, and emotional harm on many others. Much remains to be done if we are to guarantee all American youngsters the safe and happy upbringing due every child granted to us. 
Fortunately, we have come to understand better the duty of every American to protect our children, and our knowledge about the prevention and treatment of child abuse continues to grow. We better realize the duty of individuals—neighbors, friends, clergy, teachers, parents, relatives, doctors, nurses, volunteers, and so on—State and local authorities and community child protection agencies to safeguard children and to provide support, information, and guidance to families in which maltreatment of children may happen. 
All Americans should cherish the children of our land and revere the precious gift of every life. We must guard our children and join with citizens in our communities who are working to eliminate child abuse. We should also cultivate a safe and nurturing social environment for our children that promotes strong and loving families and embodies the morality, compassion, and traditional values that have ever protected society and its most vulnerable members. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 58, has designated the month of April 1987 as "National Child Abuse Prevention Month" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of April 1987 as National Child Abuse Prevention Month. As we observe this time, let us all consider our responsibility for the wholesome and secure development of our children. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eleventh.
RONALD REAGAN