By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Avoidance of illegal drug use and alcohol abuse must be emphasized early and often to children and young people. Drug Abuse Resistance Education (D.A.R.E.) is a program specifically designed to reach children. It is currently provided in 35 States and is taught by veteran police officers who have direct experience with criminals and victims of drug abuse. 
D.A.R.E. is concerned with children from kindergarten through junior high school and with their parents. It offers information and wise counsel on resisting peer pressure and avoiding illegal drug use and alcohol abuse. Police officers, experienced in the effects of drug and alcohol abuse, are trained to help students recognize the risks of drugs and to learn strategies for handling stress without resorting to dangerous substances. 
D.A.R.E. instruction programs have already touched the lives of more than a million and a half students and contributed to improved study habits, better grades, and greater respect for authority. In short, this positive program of drug abuse prevention is effective. 
In recognition of this successful program, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 295, has designated September 15, 1988, as "National D.A.R.E. Day" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim September 15, 1988, as National D.A.R.E. Day. I call upon the people of the United States and, in particular, parents, students, school administrators, and law enforcement officials, to observe this day with appropriate activities to increase awareness of D.A.R.E. throughout our Nation. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth.
RONALD REAGAN