Suspension of Entry as Immigrants and Nonimmigrants of Persons Who Formulate or Implement the Policies of the Noriega/ Solis Palma Regime 
By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
In light of the current political and economic crisis in Panama and the actions of Manuel Antonio Noriega and Manuel Soils Palma and their forces that engendered this crisis and are preventing the legitimate government of President Eric Arturo Delvalle from restoring order and democracy to that country, I have determined that it is in the interests of the United States to restrict the entrance into the United States as immigrants and nonimmigrants of certain persons who formulate or implement the policies of Manuel Antonio Noriega and Manuel Solis Palma. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 by the power vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, including section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, as amended (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), having found that the unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry of officers and employees who formulate or implement the policies of Manuel Antonio Noriega and Manuel Solis Palma would, except as provided for in Section 2 of this Proclamation, be detrimental to the interests of the United States, do proclaim that: 
Section 1. The entry into the United States as immigrants and nonimmigrants of Panamanian nationals (and their immediate families), who formulate or implement the policies of Manuel Antonio Noriega and Manuel Solis Palma and who are designated by the Secretary of State or his designee, is hereby suspended. 
Sec. 2. Nothing in this Proclamation shall be construed (1) to derogate from United States Government obligations under applicable international agreements or (2) to prohibit the entry into the United States of individuals for the purpose of submitting to legal proceedings initiated by the United States Government.
Sec. 3. This Proclamation is effective immediately and shall remain in effect until such time as the Secretary of State determines that democracy has been restored in Panama. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightyeight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twelfth.
RONALD REAGAN