By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The United States and Greece are old allies and friends. Our nations and peoples are bound by interests, kinship, values, and a record of common achievement. Ancient Greek ideals of freedom fueled our own struggle for independence, and American friends supported Greece's effort to forge a modern nation in 1821. 
Over the years, millions of Americans of Greek ancestry have enriched and strengthened the United States. In this century, Americans and Greeks fought and died together in three wars. The Truman Doctrine, which helped Greeks preserve their independence and launch Greece toward prosperity, is a proud achievement of American foreign policy. Today, Greece and the United States are partners in the NATO alliance, which has kept the peace and preserved freedom for nearly 40 years. 
The democracy we so cherish began in Greece a millennia ago. The grandeur the ancient Greeks left has endowed modern Americans and modern Greeks with democracy's promise of liberty. Today, the world is still inspired by the eternal values and aspirations for which modern Greeks reached when they began their quest for independence on March 25, 1821. 
Saluting our common fealty to democracy and its defense, and recognizing the bonds between the United States and Greece, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 218, has designated March 25, 1988, as "Greek Independence Day: A National Day of Celebration of Greek and American Democracy" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim March 25, 1988, as Greek Independence Day: A National Day of Celebration of Greek and American Democracy, and I urge all Americans to join in appropriate ceremonies and activities to salute the Greek people and Greek independence. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 25th day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightyeight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twelfth.
RONALD REAGAN