By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
This year again we observe a period of time to reflect on our efforts as individuals and as a Nation to create a drug-free society. We do so in the knowledge that we have both cause for hope and cause to redouble our efforts. 
Dedicated law enforcement officers and government personnel continue to fight the drug traffickers here and abroad who make war on all of us. Families, churches, schools, and communities are fostering wholesome and healthy attitudes and behavior that are guiding young and old alike. Public opinion polls and other measures show an increasing awareness of the seriousness of illegal drug use and alcohol abuse. And more and more of us see in our American heritage of faith, freedom, spiritual values, and personal achievement a true, rewarding way of life that far outstrips the false, harmful, and joyless path of drug addiction. 
America's young people are responding to education and prevention efforts, but continued and intensified work is needed-and at earlier ages. Positive peer pressure can significantly affect children and can create environments in which illegal drug use and alcohol abuse are unacceptable. The "Just Say No" movement, which grew out of great public concern and strong and effective encouragement by the First Lady, is now a rallying cry for youth who want to say "Yes" to life and to the future. 
During Just Say No Week this year, on May 11, children across our land will take part in a national "Just Say No" walk against drugs. This week of observance is an excellent time for each of us to commend-and to assist—the young people of our country and all of the parents, educators, and so many other Americans who continue to develop and carry out efforts against illegal drug use and alcohol abuse. 
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 545, has designated the week of May 8 through May 14, 1988, as "Just Say No Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of May 8 through May 14, 1988, as Just Say No Week. I call upon the American people and officials at every level of government, the clergy, the private sector, civic groups, educators, and the communications media to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this 10th day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightyeight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twelfth.
RONALD REAGAN