By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Ethical values are the foundation for civilized society. A society that fails to recognize or adhere to them cannot endure. 
The principles of moral and ethical conduct that have formed the basis for all civilizations come to us, in part, from the centuries-old Seven Noahide Laws. The Noahide Laws are actually seven commandments given to man by God, as recorded in the Old Testament. These commandments include prohibitions against murder, robbery, adultery, blasphemy, and greed, as well as the positive order to establish courts of justice. 
Through the leadership of Rabbi Menachem Schneerson and the worldwide Lubavitch movement, the Noahide Law -- and standards of conduct duly derived from them -- have been promulgated around the globe. 
It is fitting that we honor Rabbi Schneerson and acknowledge his important contributions to society. Our great Nation takes just pride in its dedication to the principles of justice, equality, and truth. Americans also understand that we have a responsibility to inspire the same dedication in future generations. We owe a tremendous debt to Rabbi Schneerson and to all those who promote education that embraces moral and ethical values and emphasizes their importance. 
In recognition of Rabbi Schneerson's vital efforts, and in celebration of his 87th birthday, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 173, has designated April 16, 1989, and April 6, 1990, as "Education Day, U.S.A." and has authorized and requested the President to issue an appropriate proclamation in observance of these days. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim April 16, 1989, and April 6, 1990, as Education Day, U.S.A. I invite Governors from every State and Territory, community leaders, teachers, and all Americans to observe these days through appropriate events and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH