By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Our Nation's military families embody the strength, loyalty, and love of country that have enabled the American people to build and defend this great Nation. While all families face certain challenges, the families of those who serve in the United States Armed Forces face unique hardships -- and they do so with courage and resolve. 
In the Armed Forces, frequent moves are a fact of life. Some military families move to installations far from home and loved ones in order to accompany their military members on assignment. Duty may take them not only across the country, but also around the world. These moves often require the sacrifice of promising careers or personal ties to a community, or both. For children, they often bring fears about making new friends and attending new schools. 
Wherever they reside, military families live with the knowledge that active service has its risks. Military personnel are frequently required to be absent from home on duty -- sometimes their families do not know where they are or what their mission is. And America's service men and women are always prepared to put themselves in harm's way for the sake of our national security. Few Americans are more aware of that fact than our military families. 
In spite of such hardships, America's military families are independent, persevering, and patriotic. As informal ambassadors abroad, they bring great honor to the United States. Through the love and support they give their military members, they help keep our Armed Forces strong and proud. Today, we salute them and express our gratitude for the many sacrifices they make. 
To this end, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 215, has designated November 20, 1989, as "National Military Families Recognition Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim November 20, 1989, as National Military Families Recognition Day. I urge all Americans to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH