By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
This year marks the 50th anniversary of one of our Nation's most effective voluntary organizations: the United States Coast Guard Auxiliary. 
The United States Coast Guard Auxiliary is the civilian component of the U.S. Coast Guard. During the past 50 years, its members have helped to ensure the safety of those Americans who participate in water-related activities. Dedicated to promoting safe, efficient vessel operation and increased knowledge of the laws, rules, and regulations governing boating, the Coast Guard Auxiliary offers a variety of public education programs. It provides boating safety instruction from kindergarten to the college level, as well as a special course for physically challenged boaters. The Auxiliary also performs courtesy marine examinations of safety equipment on recreational boats. 
Through its support of the Cooperative Charting Program conducted by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's National Ocean Survey, the Coast Guard Auxiliary assists in the updating of nautical charts. Auxiliary members also assist in search and rescue operations on the high seas or other navigable waters, even at the risk of their own safety. 
As the popularity of recreational boating and other water-related activity increases, the voluntary efforts of the more than 35,000 members of the Coast Guard Auxiliary will become even more important. In recognition of the generosity, concern, and personal sacrifices of the members of the United States Coast Guard Auxiliary, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 111, has designated June 23, 1989, as "United States Coast Guard Auxiliary Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim June 23, 1989, as United States Coast Guard Auxiliary Day. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH