By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, including section 2819 of the Military Construction Authorization Act, 1989 (Public Law 100-456), it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. (a) I hereby establish the Commission on Alternative Utilization of Military Facilities ("Commission"). 
(b) The Commission shall consist of a representative of the Department of Defense designated by the Secretary of Defense, a representative of the Federal Bureau of Prisons designated by the Attorney General, a representative of the National Institute on Drug Abuse designated by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, a representative of the General Services Administration designated by the Administrator of General Services, a representative of the Department of Housing and Urban Development designated by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and a representative of the Office of National Drug Control Policy designated by the Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy. The representative of the Department of Defense shall chair the Commission. 
(c) The Secretary of Defense shall provide such personnel and support to the Commission as the Secretary determines is necessary to accomplish its mission. 
Sec. 2. (a) Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense shall prepare and submit to the Commission reports listing active and nonactive military facilities that are underutilized in whole or in part or otherwise excess to the needs of the Department of Defense. 
(b) The first such report shall be prepared and submitted as soon as possible for inclusion in the first report of the Commission. The second report shall be prepared and submitted on January 30, 1990, and succeeding reports shall be prepared and submitted every other year commencing on January 30, 1992, and continuing until January 30, 1996. 
Sec. 3. (a) Subject to subsection (b), the Commission shall submit a report to the President and then to the Congress that identifies those facilities, or parts of facilities, from the list submitted by the Secretary of Defense under Section 2 that could be effectively utilized or renovated to serve as: 
(1) minimum security facilities for nonviolent prisoners, 
(2) drug treatment facilities for nonviolent drug abusers, and 
(3) facilities to assist the homeless. 
(b) The first report of the Commission shall be submitted to the President and then to the Congress by September 1, 1989. The second, and succeeding reports of the Commission, shall be submitted to the President and then to the Congress no later than September 1, 1990, and every second year through Septmeber 1, 1996. 
GEORGE BUSH
THE WHITE HOUSE,
July 7, 1989.