By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended an advisory committee on the education policy of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. 
Establishment. 
(a) There is established the President's Education Policy Advisory Committee. The Committee shall be composed of members appointed by the President. 
(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among members of the Committee. The Assistant to the President for Economic and Domestic Policy shall serve as the Secretary of the Committee. 
Sec. 2. 
Functions.
 (a) The Committee shall advise the President with respect to the objectives and conduct of the overall education policy of the United States. 
(b) In the performance of its advisory duties the Committee shall conduct a continuing review and assessment of education policy and shall report thereon to the President whenever requested. 
Sec. 3. 
Administration.
 (a) The heads of executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Committee such information with respect to education policy matters as the Committee requires for the purposes of carrying out its functions. 
(b) Members of the Committee shall serve without any compensation for their work on the Committee. However, they shall be entitled to travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service -5707). 
(c) Any expenses of the Committee shall be paid from funds available for the expenses of the Office of Policy Development. 
Sec. 4. 
General.
 Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the responsibilities of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, shall be performed by the Assistant to the President for Economic and Domestic Policy or his designee, except that the Administrator of General Services shall, on a reimbursable basis, provide such administrative services as may be required. 
(b) The Committee shall terminate on December 31, 1990, unless sooner extended. 
George Bush
The White House,
August 15, 1989.