By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
During the past 5 years, the United States has made welcome progress in its efforts to combat crime. Nevertheless, even though we have stemmed rising crime rates, we know that the incidence of criminal activity in this country is still much too high. Last year, at least one member of every four families in America was a victim of crime. 
More and more Americans are beginning to recognize that, when it comes to preventing crime and apprehending its perpetrators, neither law enforcement agencies nor government can do the job alone -- we must all work together. Today many concerned Americans across the country are joining with their neighbors in concerted efforts to fight crime and to improve the quality of life in their communities. These Americans are working with local law enforcement agencies to establish Neighborhood Watch Programs in which citizens remain vigilant against crime and report suspicious activity to police; they are cleaning up vacant lots and other places that seem to attract illicit activity; and they are participating in voluntary home security surveys designed to help residents reduce the opportunity for crime through such simple measures as window locks, improved lighting, and the pruning of shrubbery where criminals might otherwise be able to move about unnoticed. By working together, these Americans are demonstrating the moral resolve and personal commitment necessary to put drug traffickers and other criminals out of business. 
Successful crime prevention involves more than vigilance and caution, however; it also requires vision and creativity. For example, by working as partners to prevent illicit drug use, local government officials and concerned citizens can help to avert other related forms of criminal activity and violence. We can also help to prevent crime by promoting positive alternatives to delinquency and drug use among young people and encouraging youths to recognize their personal stake in the quality of their schools and communities. Successful crime prevention thus begins in each and every American home, school, and neighborhood. 
For more than a decade, the Crime Prevention Coalition, an association of more than 100 Federal, State, and local agencies and national organizations, has been working to enlist parents, educators, business and community groups, elected officials, and law enforcement personnel in a united effort to fight crime. During October 1990 the Coalition will commemorate the 10th anniversary of McGruff the Crime Dog, the symbol of the National Citizens' Crime Prevention Campaign. This innovative nationwide campaign includes public service advertising and other activities designed to encourage all Americans to help "take a bite out of crime." 
In recognition of the National Citizens' Crime Prevention Campaign, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 309, has designated the month of October 1990 as "Crime Prevention Month" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this month. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of October 1990 as Crime Prevention Month. I call upon all Americans to observe this month with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities designed to encourage greater public involvement in crime prevention efforts. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United State of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH