By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Exacting a high toll in personal suffering, in expense, and in reduced productivity, digestive diseases and other disorders of the gastrointestinal tract are a significant public health problem in the United States. More than half of all Americans suffer from a digestive disorder at some time in their lives, and at least 200,000 Americans die each year due to these afflictions. One of the most common causes of disability, digestive diseases are responsible for almost 15 percent of all hospital admissions and surgical procedures in the country. 
Fortunately, major advances have been made in digestive disease research in recent years. Scientists are learning more about the causes of these diseases and about effective ways to prevent and treat them. The dedicated personnel and supporters of those scientific, governmental, and voluntary health care organizations that engage in digestive disease research are keenly aware of the critical impact of these diseases and of the need for further study. These compassionate and hardworking men and women have committed themselves to increasing public understanding of gastrointestinal diseases and to advancing the Nation's research in the field. 
In recognition of the importance of their ongoing efforts to combat digestive diseases, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 453, has designated the month of May 1990 as "National Digestive Disease Awareness Month" ands has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation calling for observance of this month. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of May 1990 as National Digestive Disease Awareness Month. I urage the people of the United States, as well as educational, philanthropic, scientific, medical, and health care organizations and professionals, to participate in appropriate ceremonies designed to encourage further research into the causes and cures of all types of digestive diseases. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America then two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH