By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Throughout most of the past decade, the United States has enjoyed remarkable, uninterrupted economic growth. This Nation's prosperity and its continued leadership in global economic affairs are, in large part, a tribute not only to the ingenuity and drive of American workers but also to the traditional strength of our academic institutions and the fundamental validity of free market principles. 
As we approach the 21st century, however, the United States faces significant new challenges. Remaining a leader in the increasingly competitive global marketplace will require greater knowledge and improved skills among members of our labor force -- knowledge and skills that will enable them to keep pace with continued advances in science and technology. A projected slowdown in work force growth and other demographic changes, such as the changing age profile of our work force and the many types of new work force entrants, also call for higher quality education in America and more effective job training. 
A major Federal program to assist workers in acquiring the education and occupational skills they need is conducted under the Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA). Through the JTPA, private organizations and businesses work in concert with government agencies to provide training and employment opportunities for older, disadvantaged, and dislocated workers, as well as for those who previously have not been able to compete in the labor market because of lack of education or skills. By promoting higher levels of literacy, education, and skill among members of the Nation's work force, the JTPA is not only contributing to the personal fulfillment and success of individual participants, but also helping to keep our country strong and prosperous in a rapidly changing world. 
To focus national attention on current and evolving work force needs, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 333, has designated the week of September 30 through October 6, 1990, as "National Job Skills Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of September 30 through October 6, 1990, as National Job Skills Week. I call upon all Americans to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH