By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Throughout American history, the people of this Nation have depended on Almighty God for guidance and wisdom. Both Scripture and experience confirm that the Lord hears the prayers of those who place their trust in Him. Time and again, in peril and uncertainty, doubt and decision, we Americans have turned to God in prayer and, in so doing, found strength and direction. 
Today the United States and, indeed, all civilized countries are being challenged by a dictator who would brazenly deny the sovereignty of other nations in order to achieve regional hegemony and to wield undue influence over the global economy. Iraqi forces continue to occupy neighboring Kuwait, terrorizing that nation's citizens in an affront to international law and fundamental standards of morality. Scores of U.S. civilians and citizens of other nations continue to be held hostage under inhuman conditions in both Kuwait and Iraq. Thousands have been made refugees fleeing from aggression in Kuwait and brutality in Iraq. To deter further aggression, thousands of American service men and women have been deployed and remain on duty in the demanding climate of the Persian Gulf region. They, too, face considerable hardship and danger. We are grateful for the loyalty, devotion to duty, and sacrifices of the members of our Armed Forces. Yet we know that military strength alone cannot save a nation or bring it prosperity and peace; as the Scripture speaks, "Unless the Lord watches over the city, the watchman stays awake in vain." With these grave concerns before us, we do well to recall as a Nation the power of faith and the efficacy of prayer. 
The Psalmist proclaimed: "God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble." Today let us turn to Him, both as individuals and as a Nation, to ask for His continued mercy and guidance. Let us pray for peace in the Persian Gulf, and let us ask the Lord to protect all those Americans and citizens of other nations, who are working to uphold the universal cause of freedom and justice half a world away from home. May it please the Lord to grant all leaders of nations involved in this crisis the wisdom and courage to work towards its just and speedy resolution. 
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 673, has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation designating November 2, 1990, as a National Day of Prayer. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim November 2, 1990, as a National Day of Prayer for American service personnel and American civilians stationed or held hostage in the Persian Gulf region. I urge all Americans to pause on this day to pray for these individuals and their families. I ask that prayer be made for the commanders of American military forces in the region and leaders in other nations that have deployed military forces in the Middle East to stop this aggression. I also urge the American people and their elected representatives to give thanks to God for His mercy and goodness and humbly to ask for His continued help and guidance in all our endeavors. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this second day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH