By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, including sections 3301 and 3302 of title 5 and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and in order to permit certain overseas employees to acquire competitive status upon returning to the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. A United States citizen who is a family member of a Federal civilian employee, of a nonappropriated fund employee, or of a member of a uniformed service and who meets the qualifications and other requirements established by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, including an appropriate period of satisfactory service under one or more overseas appointments in the excepted or competitive civil service, may be appointed noncompetitively to a competitive service position in the executive branch within the United States (including Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands). The employing agency in the United States may waive a requirement for a written test for an individual appointed under this order if the agency determines that the duties and responsibilities of the position occupied overseas were similar enough to those of the position to which the individual is being appointed under this order to make the written test unnecessary. 
Sec. 2. The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to implement this order. 
Sec. 3. To the extent there is any conflict between this order and Civil Service Rule 8.2 (5 CFR 8.2), the provisions of this order shall control. 
Sec. 4. (a) Executive Order No. 12362 of May 12, 1982, as amended, and Executive Order No. 12585 of March 3, 1987, are revoked. 
(b) Existing regulations prescribed by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management under Executive Order No. 12362, as amended, shall continue in effect until modified or superseded by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management. 
Sec. 5. This order shall be effective upon publication in the Federal Register. 
George Bush
The White House,
July 30, 1990.