By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
American quarter horses are a highly prized breed. More individuals have benefitted from the use of American quarter horses than from any other breed of horse in the world. This horse is uniquely ours, having been developed in colonial America and bred for speed to win in popular quarter-mile races. The quarter horse still gains honors for racing throughout the country. 
Quarter horses have also earned fame as top mounts for ranch work because of their quickness, responsiveness, durability, agility, and natural ability with cattle. No other horse is a greater part of Western folklore, and none has contributed more to our Nation's development and cultural heritage. Calm of disposition yet versatile, the quarter horse can be found almost anywhere in the country -- on riding trails and in races, shows, rodeos, and parades. Young people who own quarter horses benefit substantially from the responsibility and enjoyment they entail. 
Many of these horses are enrolled in the world's largest euine registry, maintained by the American Quarter Horse Association (AQHA). Founded on March 15, 1940, by a group of southwestern ranchers, the AQHA has grown to more than 200,000 members. The registry that began with less than 600 horses now numbers more than 2.8 million. And an industry that began with just a few horsemen has grown to include more than a million owners in all walks of life and in 63 different countries. 
In recognition of the worth of "Amercia's horse," the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 186, has designated the week of March 1 through March 7, 1990, as "National Quarter Horse Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of March 1 through March 7, 1990, as National Quarter Horse Week, and I invite the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate cermonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-seventh day of February, in the year of our Lard nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundres and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH