By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Animals and pets have been partners in our American way of life ever since our ancestors first came to these shores. On the frontier, horses and cattle were vital to plowing field and to transporting people and goods. Dogs not only provided their masters with companionship, but also played a vital role in protecting farmers' and rachers' livestock. 
Today animals and pets continue to be valued by their owners -- especially children and older Americans. By caring for pets, children acquire a sense of responsibility and gentleness. They learn that, to remain healthy, pets must have proper food, exercise, and adequate shelter. Many elderly men and women find both security and an answer to loneliness through their pets. For these Americans, and, indeed, for Americans of all ages, household pets and other domestic animals bring fun-filled hours of play and the quiet joy of loyal companionship. 
For Americans who are deaf, visually impaired, or otherwise physically disabled, specially trained animals not only serve as a source of companionship but also provide the assistance needed to live and work with condifence and independence. These animals are integrated into many rehabilitation programs, as well. Every American benefits from use of specially trained animals in the work of law enforcement officers and customs officials. 
This week, we acknowledge the many rewards of owning animals and pets, as well as our obligation to protect them against inhumane treatment. We also recognize the dedicated members of the veterinary profession and members of our Nation's animal protection societies for their efforts to promote public awareness of the need to provide domestic animals with proper food, shelter, and veterinary care. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 236, has designated the week of May 6 through May 12, 1990, as "Be Kind to Animals and National Pet Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of May 6 through May 12, 1990, as Be Kind to Animals and National Pet Week. I call upon the American people to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this second day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH