By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
A great portion of our Nation's military strength is derived from our proud and courageous military families. Each of us gains untold strength and inspiration through out loved ones; for the men and women who serve in the United States Armed Forces, however, the love and support of family are indispensable when striving to endure the risks and sacrifices that are a frequent part of military life. 
Through the steadfast physical and emotional support of their loved ones, members of our Armed Forces find mush of the personal strength and motivation needed to complete arduous and sometimes hazardous assignments. Service members on duty far from home are ever grateful for the thoughts, prayers, and letters of their loved ones. Like millions of their fellow Americans around the world, the members of the Armed Forces are also uplifted and imspired by the extraordinary patriotism and perserverance of their families. 
Our Nation's military families not only provide invaluable support to their loved ones in the Armed Forces but also frequently share in the sacrifices they must make in the line of duty. Spouses, parents, children, and siblings must often cope with long hours of separation and worry. Frequent moves, which can be particularly hard on youngsters, are a fact of military life. Those moves can take a family across the country or even around the world, where parents and children must adjust to cultural differences as well as new jobs and new schools. Nevertheless, despite these and other challenges, America's military families have always displayed remarkable faith, resourcefulness, and determination. As representatives of the United States around the world, they have served our country well and with pride, and all of us can be greatful for their example. 
The Nation's military services have long acknowledged the importance of families and have thus established special programs and support systems to assist the close relatives of military personnel. Recently the families of those service men and women taking part in Operation Desert Shield have also received generous support through individual volunteers, local community groups, and private industry. Patriotic Americans across the country and around the world have demonstrated their support and rendered assistance to military families throug hcountless heartwarming gestures. This week we reaffirm the importance of such generous efforts and unite in offering a heartfelt salute to all of our Nation's military families. 
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 566, has designated November 19, 1990, as "National Military Families Recognition Day" and has authorized the requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of American, do hereby proclaim November 19, 1990, as National Military Families Recognition Day. I urge all Americans to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities in honor of U.S. military families throughout the world. I also urge the people of the United States to pause in their homes, churches, synagogues, and other suitable places on this day to pray in a special manner for those military families whose loved ones are stationed in the Persian Gulf region. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day of November, in the year of our Lord ninetheen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH