By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Prevention remains one of our most important weapons in the Nation's war on illicit drugs, and all of us must continue working together to teach young Americans about the dangers of experimenting with drugs and alcohol. One collaborative program that has proved to be particularly effective is Project D.A.R.E. (Drug Abuse Resistance Education). Developed in 1983 by the Los Angeles Police Department and the Los Angeles Unified Schoold District, the D.A.R.E. program has brought together students, parents, educators, and law enforcement officers in a concerted effort to help young Americans say "No" to illicit drugs and "Yes" to life. 
Many of our Nation's law enforcement professionals have seen firsthand the violence, death, and despair caused by drug and alcohol abuse. Most tragic and most frustrating is the devastation unleashed upon children, whose great potential and bright hopes for the future are too often laid to waste as a result of drug use. Through Project D.A.R.E., specially trained, veteran law enforcement officers provide classroom instruction aimed at impressing upon children the dangers of using drugs and alcohol. 
The D.A.R.E. program not only alerts participants to the perils of drug use, but also helps them to develop skills to resist the subtle pressures that influence young people to try drugs and alcohol. Project D.A.R.E. targets children in kindergarten through 12th grade -- at ages when they are most vulnerable -- and helps them to develop self-confidence, a sense of responsibility, and respect for our Nation's laws. 
The law enforcement officers who lead the D.A.R.E. program also help to educate parents about the dangers and symptoms of drug and alcohol abuse, pointing out ways in which they can help their children to stay away from drugs. For example, through this innovative program, parents are reminded that it is important not only to talk to their children, but also to listen to them, learining about their troubles and fears and discerning their need for guidance and support. 
Since its inception only 7 years ago, the D.A.R.E. program has been adopted by schools in 2,000 communities in 49 States and by the Department of Defense Overseas Dependent Schools worldwide. This week we applaud the success of Project D.A.R.E. and salute the dedicated law enforcement officers, parents, and educators who are making it work. We honor, too, in a special way, the enthusiastic young participants who -- by word, deed, and example -- are demonstrating to other young Americans the many great and lasting rewards of staying drug-free. 
In recognition of the success of Project D.A.R.E., the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 281, has designated Septebmer 13, 1990, as "National D.A.R.E. Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim September 13, 1990, as National D.A.R.E. Day. I urge all Americans to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of September, in the year of our Lord Nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH