By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The selection of the City of Atlanta, Georgia, as host city for the Games of the XXVIth Olympiad in 1996 gives all Americans reason to celebrate. More than a tribute to the beautiful, historic city and the hospitality of its people, the International Olympic Committee's decision to award the 1996 Games to Atlanta is a resounding vote of confidence in the United States and the future of the modern Olympic Games. 
The 1996 Games will mark the 100th anniversary of the beginning of the modern Olympic era in Athens, where Baron Pierre de Coubertin organized the first modern Games. Hosting these historic contests is, therefore, a very great honor. It is also a singularly important responsibility. Nevertheless, the people of Atlanta and their fellow citizens throughout Georgia are certain to prove more than equal to the task. 
Competing against other impressive candidate cities for the privilege of hosting the 1996 Games, the people of Atlanta and their elected representatives have worked together with remarkable unit and enthusiasm. In so doing, they have successfully highlighted the many amenities Atlanta has to offer Olympic athlete, official, and spectator alike. They have also demonstrated the vitality and warmth that are hallmarks of this fine southern American city. Most important, however, by celebrating our Nation's rich ethnic diversity and the racial harmony that has been achieved in the birthplace of the American civil rights movement and the home of the late Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., the people of Atlanta have provided a superlative example of the Olympic spirit at work. 
In 1996, as we commemorate the 100th anniversary of the first modern Olympic Games, we will also look forward to the continued advancement of international understanding and goodwill through world sporting competition. The thriving capital of Georgia is a most fitting host for the centennial Games of the modern Olympic era, and all Americans can take pride in the honor that has been rightfully bestowed upon our fellow citizens in Atlanta. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim Wednesday, October 3, 1990, as "Atlanta: Olympic Host City Day." I invite all Americans to observe this day be rededicating themselves to the Olympic ideal. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this third day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH