By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Although many Americans are just beginning to understand its special role in our Federal system, county government has a long and rich history in the United States. In fact, it is one of the oldest forms of local government in America, existing before many Sates and cities. Colonists divided part of Virginia into eight shires or counties as early as 1634, and the first counties in massachusetts were formed in 1643. Today approximately 98 percent of the Nation's people reside in counties. 
During the 1800s and the early part of this century, the primary functions of county government involved the administration of justice, law enforcement, and the building and maintenance of roads. In recent decades, however, the responsibiliities of county government have grown enormously. 
The duties of our Nation's county governments now range from the preservation of public safety to environmental protection. While every county is unique, these government entities direct housing and community development programs; they maintain parks, airports, and transit systems; and they work to solve area-wide problems such as air and water pollution, solid waste disposal, and drug trafficking. For many ill, elderly, and low-income Americans, the county is often the only available source of help in obtaining health care and other social services. The National Association of Counties reports that county governments, employing more than 2.9 million people, spent almost $111 billion in 1990 to provide services to the public. 
National County Government Week is a fitting time to reaffirm the continued importance of a strong partnership between City, County, Sate, and Federal Government -- particularly in areas such as education, transportation, and the fight against drug abuse. In recent years, more and more Americans have realized what many have known all along: that the answer to many of the problems before us can be found, not in bigger Federal Government, but in effective local leadership and cooperation between citizens and public officials at all levels. Indeed, we know that government closest to the people is truly government "of the people, by the people, and for the people." This is the essence of federalism and democracy, and it is the key to meeting many of the challenges and opportunities before our country. 
In recognition of the Nation's county governments, the Congress, by Public Law 101-470, has designated the week of April 7 through April 13, 1991, as "National County Government Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United tates of America, do hereby proclaim the week of April 7 throughout April 13, 1991, as National County Government Week. I call upon the American people and their elected representatives at all levels of government to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 19th day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH