By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Thanks, in large part, to the variety of rehabilitative programs and services that are available in the United States, millions of Americans with disabilities are leading fuller, more independent, and productive lives. These men and women are utilizing their knowledge and skills in virtually every field of endeavor, and our entire Nation is richer for their achievements. Thus, it is fitting that we pause to recognize the many dedicated professionals and volunteers who help to promote the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. 
Rehabilitation is a collaborative process that involves health care providers, therapists, educators, employers, and many others. For example, through advances in technology, scientists and engineers are helping persons with disabilities to overcome the physical barriers that once prevented them from participating in the mainstream of American life. 
Effective rehabilitation technology and techniques are also helping to change the attitudinal barriers that have, in the past, limited opportunities for persons with disabilities. Today these members of our society are refuting age-old myths and misconceptions, proving that a disability need not be an obstacle to success. Continuing advances in rehabilitation services and in related education and research -- coupled with implementation of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 -- will further open the door to their social and economic advancement. 
Of course, challenges remain in the effort to help more and more Americans with disabilities achieve their fullest potential. These challenges range from the development of a wider array of rehabilitation services to improved cooperation among human service agencies. Nevertheless, by working together, we can meet them. 
In recognition of the courage and determination of persons with disabilities, and in honor of all those who assist in their rehabilitation, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 72, has designated the week of September 15 through September 21, 1991, as "National Rehabilitation Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of September 15 through September 21, 1991, as National Rehabilitation Week. I encourage all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs and activities, including educational activities that will heighten public awareness of the rehabilitative services that are available in this country and the many ways in which these services benefit persons with disabilities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third day of August, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH