By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
International trade benefits all who participate. An expansion in trade promotes worldwide prosperity by increasing production and creating jobs. 
Open markets and the free movement of goods, services, and capital across international borders are vital to economic growth. Free trade fosters more efficient use of the world's resources, higher real wages for both American and foreign workers, and the production of a wider variety of more affordable, high quality goods for our consumers. 
Although the United States, working in concert with other nations, has made progress in dismantling trade barriers, we are still trying to achieve the ideal of free and fair trade. Toward that end, we are striving to bring the Uruguay Round of trade negotiations to a successful conclusion. We are also working to forge a North American Free Trade Agreement, which would establish the largest integrated market on earth -- a market of 360 million consumers and an estimated $6 trillion in annual output. Vital to these efforts -- and to the success of the Enterprise for the Americas Initiative -- is the extension of fast track procedures. 
Here at home we see convincing evidence that expanded trade strengthens the economy, thereby creating opportunities for individuals. During the past 5 years, exports have accounted for more than 40 percent of all growth in the U.S. economy. Last year exports supported more than 7 million jobs. Thus, it is fitting that the theme of this year's World Trade Week be "Exports: Generating Jobs for Americans." Indeed, export expansion is perhaps the most effective jobs program that our Nation can establish today. 
The triumph of democratic ideals and free market principles in more and more nations around the world has created unprecedented opportunities for American businesspeople and farmers to expand sales overseas. To take advantage of these new export opportunities, Americans must do what we do best: apply our manufacturing ingenuity, our commitment to service and to the customer, and our expert salesmanship to the challenge of opening new markets abroad. To meet foreign competition, we must redouble our commitment to quality, so that the phrase "Made in America" is automatically associated with "Best in the World." 
The United States Government stands ready to help. We are committed to eliminating foreign trade barriers and to opening new markets for American goods, services, investment, and ideas. We have placed a high priority on programs that are designed to provide American business exporters with information and counseling that will assist them in selling overseas. By expanding exports, members of American business and industry will not only increase their profits and their employment rolls but also contribute to improved standards of living for millions of people around the world. 
The message of World Trade Week, 1991, is that exports and open markets are vital to future U.S. economic growth. It is a message not just for this week but for every week of the year. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week of May 19 through May 25, 1991, as World Trade Week. I urge all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH