By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
On March 4, 1791, the Republic of Vermont became the 14th State in our Union -- the first to join the original thirteen. The Vermont State motto, "Freedom and Unity," is a fitting tribute to the history of the State and to the character of its people. Long before Vermont entered the Union, its inhabitants demonstrated great devotion to those ideals, ideals on which the United States is founded. 
In our Nation's War for Independence, as in every great struggle for freedom since, Vermonters made distinguished contributions. Today, Ethan Allen and his Green Mountain Boys, tenacious fighters who played decisive roles at the Battles of Bennington and Ticonderoga, are remembered among America's great Revolutionary War heroes. Their fierce love for the land and their fervent devotion to the cause of freedom and independence were shared by hundreds of other settlers from the region that became our 14th State. 
Vermont's dedication to freedom was also evident in its first constitution -- written in 1777, it forbade slavery and adopted universal male suffrage. Indeed, by the beginning of the Civil War, in which it played a major role, Vermont had a long-standing reputation as one of the most firmly abolitionist States. The 16 Vermont regiments dispatched to the Union Army during the Civil War represented the highest number of troops per capita of any State. Vermonters not only fought bravely for the preservation of the Union and for an end to slavery, they also made vital contributions at the pivotal Battle of Cedar Creek. 
Over the years, countless other Vermonters have made outstanding contributions to our country. Distinguished natives of the Green Mountain State include the eloquent Stephen Douglas, remembered by many for his forceful arguments during the historic Lincoln-Douglas debates; the inventor, Thomas Davenport; Presidents Calvin Coolidge and Chester Aruther; and Warren R. Austin, the first United States Representatives to the United Nations. 
Today, Vermonters take just pride in their heritage as a State committed to the ideals of freedom and unity. That heritage goes hand in hand with a rich legacy of growth and development. Beloved by millions of visitors for its breathtaking mountains and unspoiled beauty, Vermont is also home to a number of vital industries, ranging from electronics to agricultural production. 
In recognition of Vermont's contributions to the United States and in commemoration of its Bicentennial, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 58, has designated March 4, 1991, as "Vermont Bicentennial Day," and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim March 4, 1991, as Vermont Bicentennial Day. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set may hnd this fourth day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH