By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
As we Americans observe Women's History Month this March, we remember in a special way women who were pioneers in their respective fields -- including women who were the first to pursue jobs and degrees traditionally held by men. Women have always played leading roles in American agriculture, however, and today they remain full working partners on our Nation's farms. On this occasion, we gratefully recognize their contributions and achievements. 
In every generation, in times of adversity as well as in times of plenty, women have demonstrated the hardy spirit and the finely honed skills necessary to ensure the survival of the American farm. On the frontier, women helped to raise crops and care for livestock while meeting the numerous demands of home and family. During periods of conflict in our Nation's history -- and, in particular, during the long and difficult years of the Second World War -- women played critical roles in the management and operation of our farms and ranches. 
Today new challenges confront American farm women as they strive to apply innovative agricultural methods and technology while meeting demands for better business practices. Women in agriculture are meeting those challenges with an increasing array of new skills and knowledge -- and with the remarkable resilience and resolve that have long characterized the American farmer. 
Throught the grace of Almighty God and through the daily labors of the men and women who till and soil, plant the seeds, nourish the tender shoots, and reap the harvest, our Nation's farms are the most efficient and most productive in the world. In fact, America's farmers produce enough food and fiber to meet our Nation's needs and those of millions of people around the globe. 
On this occasion, we offer special thanks to the women who serve on our Nation's farms. In agriculture as in virtually every other field of endeavor, women are making vital contributions to our families, communities, and country. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 176, has designated March 19, 1992, as "National Women in Agriculture Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim March 19, 1992, as National Women in Agriculture Day. I invite all Americans to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this seventeenth day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH