By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
1. Section 202 and 204 of the Andean Trade Preference Act (ATPA) and 3203) confer authority upon the President to proclaim duty-free treatment for all eligible articles, and duty reductions for certain other articles, that are the product of any country designated as a "beneficiary country" in accordance with the provisions of section 203 of the ATPA 
2. Pursuant to section 203(b)(2) of the ATPA (b)(2)), I have notified the House of Representatives and the Senate of my intention to designate Colombia as a beneficiary country for purposes of the ATPA, together with the considerations entering into such decision. 
3. In order to implement the tariff treatment provided under the ATPA, it is necessary to modify the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTS), thus incorporating the substance of relevant provisions of the ATPA, pursuant to section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974 (the Trade Act) 
4. In order to implement the tariff treatment provided for in the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act, as amended (CBERA) 
et seq.
), I have determined that it is necessary and appropriate to correct the designation in the HTS of certain articles with respect to their eligibility under the CBERA. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, acting under the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including but not limited to the ATPA, the CBERA, and section 604 of the Trade Act, do proclaim that: 
(1) A modification to general note 3(c)(i)(A) and a new general note 3(c)(ix), as set forth in sections (a)(1) and (2) of the Annex to this proclamation, are inserted in numerical sequence in the general notes to the HTS. 
(2) Colombia is hereby designated as a beneficiary country under the ATPA. 
(3) In order to afford duty-free entry to eligible products of designated beneficiary countries under the ATPA, the HTS is modified as set forth in sections (a)(3) and (4) of the Annex of this proclamation. 
(4) In order to afford duty-free entry to eligible products of designated beneficiary countries under the ATPA and to implement the tariff treatment provided for in the CBERA, the HTS is modified as set forth in sections (a)(5), (6), (7), (8), and (9) of the Annex to this proclamation. 
(5) In order to afford staged duty reductions to certain other products of designated beneficiary countries under the ATPA, the HTS is further modified as set forth in section (b) of the Annex to this proclamation. 
(6) Any provisions of previous proclamations and Executive orders inconsistent with the provisions of this proclamation are hereby superseded to the extent of such inconsistency. 
(7)(a) The modifications made by paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) of this proclamation shall be effective with respect to articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 15 days after the date of publication of this proclamation in the Federal Register. 
(b) The modifications made by paragraph (5) to this proclamation shall be effective with respect to articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after the dates set forth in section (b) of the Annex to this proclamation. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this second day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH