By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act 
et seq.
), the National Emergencies Act 
et seq.
), section 1114 of the Federal Avaiation [Aviation] Act of 1958, as amended section 5 of the United Nations Participation Act of 1945, as amended and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, in view of United Nations Security Council Resolutions Nos. 731 of January 21, 1992, and 748 of March 31, 1992, and in order to take additional steps with respect to Libya's continued support for international terrorism and the national emergency declared in Executiver Order No. 12543 of January 7, 1986, it is hereby ordered that: 
Section 1. Except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, authorizations, or licenses that may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the effective date of this order, the granting of permission to any aircraft to take off from, land in, or overfly the United States, if the aircraft, as part of the same flight or as a continuation of that flight, is destined to land in or has taken off from the territory of Libya, is hereby prohibited. 
Sec. 2. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of section 1 of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may redelegate the authority set forth in this order to other officers in the Department of the Treasury and may confer or impose such authority upon any other officer of the United States, with the consent of the head of the department or agency within which such officer is serving. All executive branch agencies of the Federal Government hereby affected are directed to consult as appropriate on the implementation of this order and to take all necessary measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order, including the suspension or termination of licenses or other authorizations in effect as of the date of this order. 
Sec. 3. Nothing contained in this order shall confer any substantive or procedural right or privilege on any person or organization, enforceable against the United States, its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers, or its employees. 
Sec. 4. This order is effective 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time, April 15, 1992. 
Sec. 5. This order shall be transmitted to the Cogress and published in the Federal Register. 
George Bush
The White House,
April 15, 1992.