By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 7455(d)(2)-(3) of title 38, United States Code, in order to establish procedures for review of proposed increases in the rates of basic pay of certain employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs and of other agencies, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. The Director of the Office of Personnel Management is designated to exercise the authority vested in the President by section 7455(d)(2)-(3) of title 38, United States Code, to review and approve or disapprove the increases in rates of basic pay proposed by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and to provide the appropriate committees of the Congress with a written statement of the reasons for any such disapproval. 
Sec. 2. In exercising this authority, the Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall assure that any increases in basic pay proposed by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs are in the best interest of the Federal Government, do not exceed the amounts authorized by section 7455, and are made only to: 
(1) Provide pay in an amount competitive with, but not exceeding, the amount of the same type of pay paid to the same category of health-care personnel at non-Federal health-care facilities in the same labor market; 
(2) Achieve adequate staffing at particular facilities; or 
(3) Recruit personnel with specialized skills, especially those with skills which are especially difficult or demanding. 
Sec. 3. The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall provide to the Director of the Office of Personnel Management such information as the Director may request in order to carry out the responsibilities delegated by this order. 
Sec. 4. The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall provide the Secretary of Veterans Affairs with a copy of any written statement provided to the appropriate committees of the Congress that sets forth the reasons for disapproval of any proposed increase in rates of basic pay under this order. 
Sec. 5. In the case of any other law authorizing another agency to use the authority provided by section 7455 of title 38, United States Code, the Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall exercise the same authority in the same manner as provided for with respect to section 7455 under sections 1 through 4 of this order, and the head of such other agency shall provide information requested by the Director as provided for in section 3 of this order. 
Sec. 6. Executive Order No. 12438 of August 23, 1983, is revoked. 
Sec. 7. This order shall be effective upon publication in the Federal Register. 
George Bush
The White House,
April 3, 1992.