By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including Public Law 101-610, as amended, and in order to ensure that the Federal Government encourages its employees' participation in community service, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Sectin 1. 
Charge to the Cabinet and Members of the Executive Branch Departments and Agencies.
 
(a) The head of each Executive department and agency shall encourage agency employees to participate voluntarily in direct and consequential community service. Community service participation may include, among other things, participation in programs, activities and initiatives designed to address problems such as drug abuse, crime, homelessness, illiteracy, AIDS, teenage pregnancy, and hunger, and problems associated with low-income housing, education, health care and the environment. The White House Office of National Service and the Commission on National and Community Service shall serve as a resource to provide information and support. 
(b) The head of each Executive department and agency shall designate a senior official of his or her department or agency to provide leadership in and support for the Federal commitment to community servive through employee awareness and participation within his or her department and agency. The senior official shall report to his or her department or agency head to ensure that community service activities receive a high level of visibility and promotion. 
(c) The head of each Executive department and agency shall designate an existing office in his or her department or agency to perform the functions listed below. The office shall serve as the Officer of Community Service and will be responsible for: 
(1) Providing information to employees of the department or agency concerning community service opportunities; 
(2) Working with the White House Office of National Service and the Office of Personnel Management to consider any appropriate changes in department or agency policies or practices that would encourage employee participation in community service activities; and 
(3) Acting as a liaison with the White House Office of National Service and the Commission on National and Community Service. 
Sec. 2. 
Administrative Provisions.
 
The White House Office of National Service and the Commission on National and Community Service shall provide such information with respect to community service programs and activities and such advice and assistance as may be required by the departments and agencies for the purpose of carrying out their functions under this order. 
Sec. 3. 
Reporting Provisions.
 
The head of each Executive department or agency, or is or her designee, shall submit an annual report on the actions the department or agency has taken to encourage its employees to participate in community service to the White House Office of National Service not later than December 30 each year. 
George Bush
The White House,
November 5, 1992.