By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
1. Section 504(a)(1) of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (the 1974 Act) (a)(1)), provides that the President may withdraw, suspend, or limit the application of the duty-free treatment afforded under the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) with respect to any article or any country after considering the factors set forth in sections 501 and 503(c) of the 1974 Act and 2462(c)). Pursuant to section 504(a)(1) of the 1974 Act and having considered the factors set forth in sections 501 and 502(c), including, in particular, section 502(c)(5) on the adequate and effective protection of intellectual property rights, I have determined that it is appropriate to suspend the duty-free treatment afforded under the GSP to certain eligible articles that are imported from India, as provided for in the Annex to this proclamation. 
2. Section 504(c) of the 1974 Act (C)), provides that beneficiary developing countries are subject to limitations on the preferential treatment afforded under the GSP. Pursuant to 504(c)(1)(B), I have determined that India should no longer receive preferential tariff treatment under the GSP with respect to certain eligible articles, as provided for in the Annex to this proclamation. 
3. Section 604 of the 1974 Act authorizes the President to embody in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTS) the substance of the relevant provisions of that Act, and of other acts affecting import treatment, and actions thereunder. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, acting under the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including but not limited to sections 501, 502(c), 504, and 604 of the 1974 Act, do proclaim that: 
(1) In order to provide that India should no longer be treated as a beneficiary developing country with respect to certain eligible articles for purposes of the GSP program, the HTS is modified as provided in the Annex to this proclamation. 
(2) Any provisions of previous proclamations and Executive orders inconsistent with the provisions of this proclamation are hereby superseded to the extent of such inconsistency. 
(3) The amendments made by this proclamation shall be effective with respect to articles both: (i) imported on or after January 1, 1976, and (ii) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 15 days after the date of publication of this proclamation in the 
Federal Register. 
 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH