By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
This year we have witnessed major changes in the global political landscape. Although democracy is taking root in many new areas, the forces of repression pose continuing challenges around the world. Throughout this dynamic period, one theme rings true to all Americans: Our Nation owes a lasting debt of gratitude to all those selfless members of our Armed Forces who have risked their own freedom and safety to defend the lives and liberty of others. As a measure of our thanks and as an expression of our determination to keep faith with those who faithfully serve and defend us, we take this occasion to remember those special Americans for whom an accounting has not yet been made.
In honor of these Americans, on September 10, 1993, the flag of the National League of POW/MIA families will be flown over the White House; the U.S. Departments of State, Defense, and Veterans Affairs; the Selective Service System headquarters; and the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. This black and white banner -- emblematic of America's missing -- flies as a stark reminder to the world of our Nation's resolve.
We acknowledge a continuing obligation to these casualties of war, America's missing service members and civilians. Our Nation remains committed to this cause, a matter of highest national priority. We renew our pledge to obtain the answers that the family members of these heroes deserve, recognizing the profound loss they have endured and their steadfast resolve to gain the peace of certainty.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 10, 1993, as National POW/MIA Recognition Day. I urge all Americans to join in honoring former American POWs as well as those Americans still unaccounted for as a result of their service to our great Nation. I also encourage the American people to express their gratitude to the families of these missing Americans for their dedication to seeking the truth and their determination to persevere through the many years of waiting. Finally, I ask State and local officials and private organizations to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this third day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON