By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Medical research confirms that regular physical activity benefits human health in many ways. Exercise can help to prevent and manage coronary heart disease, hypertension, noninsulin-dependent diabetes, osteoporosis, and mental health problems, such as depression and anxiety. Regular exercise is also linked with lower rates of colon cancer and stroke. Light to medium exercise for at least 30 minutes each day enhances our lives by improving our physical fitness and our health.
Sustained walking is a wonderful way to exercise at minimal risk and little cost. Millions of Americans enjoy walking for a variety of reasons: as a time for private reflection; an occasion to enjoy the company of friends; a form of public demonstration; or as an invigorating activity and sport. Exercise such as walking is a key component of our Nation's prevention agenda, which envisions a healthier, vibrant America. Regular walking is a form of self-care that can contribute to the reduction of preventable death, disease, and disability; reduce health care costs; improve overall energy and efficiency; and promote long and healthy lives. Americans across the country are experiencing the joys and benefits of regular walking as policymakers, legislators, and citizens work to improve trails and protect natural environments that make walking pleasurable and safe.
The Congress, by Public Law 102-474, has designated the week of May 2 through May 8, 1993, as "National Walking Week" and has requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of May 2 through May 8, 1993, as National Walking Week. I invite the Governors of the 50 States and the appropriate officials of all other areas under the jurisdiction of the United States to issue similar proclamations. I encourage the American people to join with health and recreation professionals, private voluntary associations, and other concerned organizations in observing this week with appropriate programs and activities.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this sixth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON