By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Families are our Nation's lifeblood and strength. No matter its size or composition, it is the source of our ideals and the birthplace of our memories. Connected families in vital communities are essential to this country's future.
The common bonds of family love, sharing, and mutual support have for generations shaped the character of our society. Anchored by strong insights, deeply felt convictions, moral principles, and concern for societal improvement and well-being, families have used their devotion, creative ideals, and energies to define themselves, their communities, and the Nation.
The willing acceptance of family obligations and the unselfish shouldering of responsibilities are core components of caring families. Families encourage and foster teamwork, as well as individuality, personal sacrifice, personal attainment, and a wide range of joys and life experiences.
America has maintained its unique position in the history of nations because we have not forgotten the teachings of our forebears. We have thrived because we, their children, have remained committed to advancing the causes of liberty and justice. Even in times of national crisis, we have recalled the importance of our national family tree, always returning to the promise of its protective shade.
As families across the country gather in thanksgiving, it is particularly appropriate that we pause as a Nation to acknowledge the blessings of love and loyalty that families bring to their members and through them, to the community of America. Like our democracy, all of our families must strive to be nurturing and steady. All of our children, grandparents, mothers and fathers must know that no matter the challenges we face, we can be secure in the love and support of a family. This lesson is among our founders' most precious gifts. Fulfilling their ideal is each generation's most profound responsibility.
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 79, has designated the week of November 21, 1993, and the week of November 20, 1994, as "National Family Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of these weeks.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of November 21, 1993, and the week of November 20, 1994, as National Family Week. I invite the States, communities, and people of the United States to observe these weeks with appropriate ceremonies and programs in appreciation of our Nation's families.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON