By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
America's roots run deep in agriculture. We have long prospered through the twin blessings of our natural resources and the productivity of the American farmer. Agriculture has contributed heavily to the economic and social progress of the United States, making our Nation the world's largest exporter of food products and a generous provider of food aid around the world.
For more than two centuries, our food, agricultural, and natural resource system has been nurtured and sustained by dedicated people committed to providing safe and abundant food and fiber products. About 20 percent of the Nation's work force is engaged in jobs related to agriculture, and annual employment openings in this industry are expected to outpace the supply of trained workers.
The education and training of agricultural workers have, therefore, long been a national priority, leading to the development of a comprehensive system of agricultural education in our public schools. The National Future Farmers of America was founded in 1928 to serve the needs of secondary students preparing for leadership roles in the science, business, and technology of agriculture. Chartered by Congress in 1950, the FFA is an integral part of public instruction in agriculture and today provides premier leadership, personal growth, and career development to its 401,574 members. Local, State, and national activities as well as award programs provide opportunities for students to apply knowledge and skills acquired through agricultural education. FFA members strive to develop agricultural leadership, cooperation, and citizenship.
The National FFA Foundation, which raises funds in support of FFA programs, represents an exemplary partnership between business and education. The National FFA Alumni Association provides support to these young men and women on local, State, and national levels.
The strategic importance of our food, agricultural, and natural resource system will grow during the coming decade. This will require even stronger leaders, more creative scientists, greater international business understanding, and increased sensitivity for consumers and the environment. These skilled professionals will chart the course of U.S. food, agricultural, and natural resources in the 1990s and beyond. The National FFA Organization, by attracting young people to agriculture and preparing them for future careers, contributes greatly to an important sector of the national economy. It is proper that we should honor the accomplishments and achievements of this fine organization.
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 101, has designated the week of February 21 through February 27, 1993, as "National FFA Organization Awareness Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of February 21 through February 27, 1993, as National FFA Organization Awareness Week. I encourage all Americans in rural, urban, and suburban communities to join in recognizing the achievements and contributions of the young men and women of the National FFA Organization and to observe National FFA Organization Awareness Week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON