By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Compact of Free Association (the Compact) and Public Laws 99–239 and 99–658, I hereby order that Executive Order No. 12569 of October 16, 1986, be amended as follows:
Section 1. Paragraphs (1)–(3) of subsection (e) of section 3 shall read:
"(e)(1) The Secretary of State shall be responsible for the conduct of United States relations with the Freely Associated States, carry out related matters, and provide appropriate support to the Interagency Group, bearing in mind the continued special relationship between the United States and the Freely Associated States.
 (2)
 The Secretaries of Defense and Interior may, to the extent permitted by law, delegate any or all of their respective authorities and responsibilities as described in this Order to the Secretary of State or his or her designee. The Secretary of State or his or her designee shall serve as Executive Secretary of the Interagency Group.
 (3)
 Personnel additional to that provided by the Secretary of State may be detailed to the Department of State by the Executive departments and agencies that are members of the Interagency Group, and by other agencies as appropriate. Executive departments and agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide such information, advice, and administrative services and facilities to the Secretary of State as may be necessary to conduct United States relations with the Freely Associated States."
Sec. 2. Section 5 shall read:
"Sec. 5. Cooperation among Executive Departments and Agencies. All Executive departments and agencies shall cooperate in the effectuation of the provisions of this Order. The Interagency Group and the Secretary of State shall facilitate such cooperative measures. Nothing in this Order shall be construed to impair the authority and responsibility of the Secretary of Defense for security and defense matters in or relating to the Freely Associated States."
William J. Clinton
THE WHITE HOUSE,
November 3, 1993.