By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
During the American Civil War, both Union and Confederate forces relied on the skill and courage of women. Thousands volunteered as nurses; others spied on the enemy; many disguised themselves as men and stood to fight in battle. As our Nation has grown, so too has the number of women veterans. From Europe to Korea to the Persian Gulf, their knowledge and leadership have been essential in maintaining the unparalleled effectiveness of every branch of the United States Armed Forces.
Today, American women share the responsibility of defending the cause of freedom around the world. Time and again, women have demonstrated their professionalism in peacetime and have proven their mettle in combat. Their heroism, their bravery, and their tireless devotion to duty have helped to ensure all Americans the protection of the greatest fighting force the world has ever known.
America is blessed with more than 1 million living women veterans. In myriad different roles, they have brought honor to our country and strength to our cause. As more and more women answer the call to military service, we salute the many proud veterans who served before them and paved the way. Our veterans exemplify the spirit of patriotism and service that has characterized American women in uniform throughout our Nation's history.
In respect for and recognition of these distinguished citizens, the Congress, by Public Law 103–148, has designated the week of November 6, 1994, through November 12, 1994, as "National Women Veterans Recognition Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of November 6, 1994, through November 12, 1994, as National Women Veterans Recognition Week. I encourage all Americans to join in acknowledging the tremendous contributions and sacrifices of these noble veterans with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON