By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
This year marks the 50th anniversary of America's participation in the largest single amphibious assault in history. Considered by many to be a turning point in the Second World War, the D-Day invasion at Normandy serves as a clear reminder of our Nation's long-standing commitment to fight for the principles of democracy and to defeat the forces of oppression.
We must always remember the dedication and sacrifice of our service men and women who, throughout our history, have risked their lives to preserve freedom for future generations. As a Nation, we are forever indebted to these outstanding Americans for their selfless devotion to duty. In expressing our gratitude, we should also pause to recognize those patriots who were held as prisoners of war and those who remain unaccounted for as a result of their heroic service.
On September 16, 1994, the flag of the National League of POW/MIA Families, a black and white banner symbolizing America's missing, will be flown over the White House; the Capitol; the U.S. Departments of State, Defense, and Veterans Affairs; the Selective Service System headquarters; the Vietnam Veterans Memorial; and national cemeteries across the country. This flag is a powerful reminder to people everywhere of our country's firm resolve to achieve the fullest possible accounting of every member of the United States Armed Forces.
On this day, we pay tribute to our missing service members and civilians. In their names, we reaffirm our national commitment to securing the return of all Americans who may be held against their will and to repatriating all recoverable remains of those who died in service to our country. That effort ranks among our highest and most solemn national priorities. America's heroes, and their families and loved ones, deserve no less.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 196, has designated September 16, 1994, as "National POW/MIA Recognition Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim September 16, 1994, as National POW/MIA Recognition Day. I ask that every American take time to honor all former American POWs, as well as those service members and civilians still unaccounted for as a result of their service to our great Nation. I encourage the American people to recognize the families of these missing Americans for their ongoing dedication to seek the truth and for their determination to persevere through many long years of waiting. Finally, I call upon State and local officials and private organizations to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of September in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON