By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The Constitution of the United States of America is as forceful and dynamic today as it was on September 17, 1787, the day it was signed by our Nation's Founders. This hallowed document has endured, and, indeed, has grown stronger over the 207 years since its adoption. Today, more than ever, the Constitution stands as a beacon for all who are dedicated to the principles of government by and for the people.
The Constitution provides a framework of both constancy and flexibility in a Nation that is forever striving to change for the better. But the Constitution is more than simply the blueprint of our system of government, more too than the guardian of our most sacred rights. It is a challenge to every American. For it is only through the daily actions of each one of us that the ideals it promises are fulfilled.
The Founders of our Nation pledged their lives, their fortunes, and their honor. They did not take their liberty or their new citizenship as Americans for granted. Neither did the countless courageous men and women who have sacrificed their lives to defend that Constitution since then. Nor have the millions of immigrants throughout our history who have braved daunting obstacles to reach the welcoming freedom of our shores. Following in our ancestors' great tradition of responsibility, Americans retain a solemn duty and a profound obligation to ensure that the world's boldest experiment in self-government continues to thrive and prosper.
Each of us has the right and the responsibility to be educated and informed, to vote for those who represent us, and to participate at every level of government. This week, let us give thanks for the freedoms we cherish and enjoy. Let us pause in our busy lives to learn more about and to appreciate our roles as American citizens. While our Constitution may set forth rights and liberties, only our citizens can maintain and guarantee them. Ours has never been an easy task, but it is one in which we will surely continue to succeed.
In recognition of the paramount importance of the Constitution to our Nation, and of all who, by birth or by naturalization, have attained the status of United States citizenship, the Congress by joint resolution on February 29, 1952 (36 U.S.C. section 153), designated September 17 as Citizenship Day, and by joint resolution of August 2, 1956 (36 U.S.C. section 159), requested the President to proclaim the week beginning September 17 and ending September 23 of each year as Constitution Week.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim September 17, 1994, as "Citizenship Day," and the week beginning September 17 through September 23, 1994, as "Constitution Week." I call upon Federal, State, and local officials, as well as leaders of civic, educational, and religious organizations, to conduct meaningful ceremonies and programs in their schools, churches, and other community gathering places to foster a better understanding of the Constitution and of the rights and duties of citizenship.
I further call upon the officials of the Government to display the flag of the United States on all Government buildings on September 17, 1994, in honor of Citizenship Day.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON