By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
In light of the political crisis in Haiti resulting from the expulsion from Haiti of President Aristide and the constitutional government, United Nations Security Council Resolution 917, and the overriding interest of the United States in the restoration of democracy to Haiti, I have determined that it is in the interests of the United States to restrict the entry to the United States of: (1) all aliens described in paragraph 3 of United Nations Security Council Resolution 917; and (2) all other aliens who formulate, implement, or benefit from policies that impede the progress of the negotiations designed to restore constitutional government to Haiti and their immediate families.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 by the powers vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, including sections 212(f) and 215 of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, as amended (8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, hereby find that the unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens described in sections 1 and 2 of this proclamation would, except as provided for in sections 3 and 4 of this proclamation, be detrimental to the interests of the United States. I do therefore proclaim that:
Section 1. The immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens described in paragraph 3 of United Nations Security Council Resolution 917 is hereby suspended. These aliens are: (a) all officers of the Haitian military, including the police, and their immediate families;
(b) the major participants in the coup d'état of 1991 and in the illegal governments since the coup d'état, and their immediate families; and
(c) those employed by or acting on behalf of the Haitian military, and their immediate families.
Sec. 2. The immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens who are not covered by section 1, but who nonetheless formulate, implement, or benefit from policies that impede the progress of the negotiations designed to restore constitutional government to Haiti, and their immediate families, is hereby suspended.
Sec. 3. Section 1 shall not apply with respect to any alien otherwise covered by section 1 where the entry of such alien has been approved as prescribed by paragraph 3 of United Nations Security Council Resolution 917.
Sec. 4. Section 2 shall not apply with respect to any alien otherwise covered by section 2 where the entry of such alien would not be contrary to the interests of the United States.
Sec. 5. Aliens covered by sections 1 through 4 shall be identified pursuant to procedures established by the Secretary of State, as authorized in section 8 below.
Sec. 6. Nothing in this proclamation shall be construed to derogate from United States Government obligations under applicable international agreements.
Sec. 7. This proclamation shall take effect at 11:59 p.m., eastern daylight time on May 8, 1994, and shall remain in effect until such time as the Secretary of State determines that it is no longer necessary and should be terminated.
Sec. 8. The Secretary of State shall have responsibility to implement this proclamation pursuant to procedures the Secretary may establish.
Sec. 9. Proclamation No. 6569 of June 3, 1993, is hereby revoked.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this seventh day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON