By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Our country's rich diversity of peoples and cultures has been called "the noble experiment." From its beginnings, our great democracy has guaranteed its citizens the blessings of freedom and the right of self-determination. Each year, with the coming of spring and the rebirth of nature, we pause to consider the progress of our Nation and to reaffirm our allegiance to the American experiment.
Two hundred and twenty years ago in Lexington, Massachusetts, a ragged group of colonial Americans faced a column of British soldiers. As the smoke cleared from the "shot heard round the world," eight American "Minutemen" lay dead—their blood spilled along the path to a new Nation on this soil. Their gift of freedom is held sacred to this day.
All Americans can be proud of the heritage of courage and sacrifice that has extended unbroken through generations of our citizens. The success of the United States today is seen both in our continued prosperity and strength and in our role as an international beacon of liberty. As we recall those who gave their lives for our freedom, we see our Nation's history reflected in their ranks—from the tireless "Minutemen" in Lexington to the brave men and women who fought in the Persian Gulf. These fine citizens, along with their families and those who have served on the home front, deserve our profound respect and gratitude. Let history forever record our loyalty to their legacy.
The Congress, by Public Law 85-529, has designated May 1 of each year as "Loyalty Day." We spend this day in celebration of our Constitution and our precious Bill of Rights and in honor of the sacrifices that have enabled this great charter to endure.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim May 1, 1995, as Loyalty Day. I call upon all Americans to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities, including public recitation of the Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of the United States. I also call upon government officials to display the flag on all government buildings and grounds on this day.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON