By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Two thousand five hundred years ago in Athens, across the Peninsula of Attica and throughout Greece, the idea of democracy was embodied in a series of rights and laws. The resulting freedom for the citizens of that land sparked a period of unprecedented activity in philosophy and the arts. The birth of democracy in Greece signaled the beginning of a lasting cultural transformation clearly reflected in the course of Western civilization.
The United States is proud to acknowledge the debt it owes to the ancient Greeks, whose philosophy and political system guided America's founders in forming a representative democracy on this continent. Yet the common bond that unites our modern nations goes beyond our commitment to the principles of democracy; beyond, too, the close friendship that we share. Through the years, our citizens have demonstrated a willingness to fight for the right to self-determination and for the cause of human dignity. The Greek struggle for independence 174 years ago won the hearts of Americans and all those who love freedom. As we mark the anniversary of that momentous occasion, Americans and Greeks join again in celebration.
Our countries now stand at the dawn of a new era—a time of growing hope and expanding opportunity. Nations across Central Europe are striving to turn from ancient rivalries and to embrace the possibility of democratic, market-oriented change. The Greek dedication to independence can provide both an important example and a helping hand for its neighbors, and Greece's recent efforts to strengthen these ties can serve to foster stability and prosperity throughout the region. Today, as ever, the United States supports Greece in its call for fellowship and peace. We stand together in affirming that the blessings of democracy will long survive and flourish.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March 25, 1995, as "Greek Independence Day: A National Day of Celebration of Greek and American Democracy." I call upon all Americans to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON