By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
As Americans, we take pride in the diversity that allows us to appreciate the world from many standpoints, and we draw our vitality from the contributions made by people of all experiences, talents, and backgrounds. Long dedicated to the goal of independence, America's blind and visually impaired citizens have enriched our history, inspiring others to join their efforts to further integration and inclusion.
The majority of blind and visually impaired people use the white cane to facilitate their travel. This remarkably simple instrument provides tactile, kinesthetic, and auditory signals to its users, allowing them to detect obstacles, steps up and down, and changes in surface texture. Enhancing motivation and confidence, the white cane has empowered countless blind and visually impaired individuals to gain freedom of movement and to flourish in society. For those of us who are not blind or visually impaired, it signals us to exercise extra caution and to be courteous drivers and pedestrians.
As our Nation observes this special day, the white cane is a symbol of strength and a reminder of the tremendous potential available within each person. We must continue to work for full implementation of the Americans With Disabilities Act, which protects people with disabilities from discrimination in the workplace, mandates access to public and private services and accommodations, and promotes equal opportunity. The American Dream is an inspiration to us all—let us work to ensure that every person can realize its promise.
To honor the numerous achievements of blind and visually impaired citizens and to recognize the significance of the white cane in advancing independence, the Congress, by joint resolution approved October 6, 1964, has designated October 15 of each year as "White Cane Safety Day."
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 15, 1995, as White Cane Safety Day. I call upon government officials, educators, and all the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies, activities, and programs.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twentieth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON