By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in order to change the name of the "President's Council on Counter-Narcotics" to the "President's Drug Policy Council" and to make the Secretaries of the Interior, Agriculture, Health and Human Services, Housing and Urban Development, Education, Veterans Affairs, and the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, permanent members of the Council, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. The Council established by Executive Order 12992 shall henceforth be called the "President's Drug Policy Council."
Sec. 2. Section 1 of Executive Order 12992 is amended by deleting "President's Council on Counter-Narcotics" and inserting "President's Drug Policy Council" in lieu thereof.
Sec. 3. Section 2 of Executive Order 12992 is amended to read as follows:
"Sec. 2. Membership. The Council shall comprise the:
"(a) President, who shall serve as Chairman of the Council; "(b) Vice President; "(c) Secretary of State; "(d) Secretary of the Treasury; "(e) Secretary of Defense; "(f) Attorney General; "(g) Secretary of the Interior; "(h) Secretary of Agriculture; "(i) Secretary of Health and Human Services; "(j) Secretary of Housing and Urban Development; "(k) Secretary of Transportation; "(l) Secretary of Education; "(m) Secretary of Veterans Affairs; "(n) Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations; "(o) Director of the Office of Management and Budget; "(p) Chief of Staff to the President; "(q) Director of National Drug Control Policy; "(r) Director of Central Intelligence; "(s) Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs; "(t) Counsel to the President; "(u) Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff; "(v) National Security Advisor to the Vice President; and "(w) Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy.
"As applicable, the Council shall also comprise such other officials of the departments and agencies as the President may, from time to time, designate."
William J. Clinton
The White House,
November 6, 1996.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., November 7, 1996]