By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to improve the coordination of United States Government International Exchanges and Training Programs, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. There is hereby established within the United States Information Agency a senior-level Interagency Working Group on United States Government-Sponsored International Exchanges and Training ("the Working Group"). The purpose of the Working Group is to recommend to the President measures for improving the coordination, efficiency, and effectiveness of United States Government-sponsored international exchanges and training. The Working Group shall establish a clearinghouse to improve data collection and analysis of international exchanges and training.
Sec. 2. The term "Government-sponsored international exchanges and training" shall mean the movement of people between countries to promote the sharing of ideas, to develop skills, and to foster mutual understanding and cooperation, financed wholly or in part, directly or indirectly, with United States Government funds.
Sec. 3. The Working Group shall consist of the Associate Director for Educational and Cultural Affairs of the United States Information Agency, who shall act as Chair, and a comparable senior representative appointed by the respective Secretary of each of the Departments of State, Defense, Education, and the Attorney General, by the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, and by heads of other interested executive departments and agencies. In addition, representatives of the National Security Council and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall participate in the Working Group at their discretion. The Working Group shall be supported by an interagency staff office established in the Bureau of Education and Cultural Affairs of the United States Information Agency.
Sec. 4. The Working Group shall have the following responsibilities:
(a) Collect, analyze, and report data provided by all United States Government departments and agencies conducting international exchanges and training programs;
(b) Promote greater understanding of and cooperation on, among concerned United States Government departments and agencies, common issues and challenges faced in conducting international exchanges and training programs, including through the establishment of a clearinghouse for information on international exchange and training activities in the governmental and nongovernmental sectors;
(c) In order to achieve the most efficient and cost-effective use of Federal resources, identify administrative and programmatic duplication and overlap of activities by the various United States Government agencies involved in Government-sponsored international exchange and training programs, and report thereon;
(d) No later than 1 year from the date of this order, develop initially and thereafter assess annually a coordinated strategy for all United States Government-sponsored international exchange and training programs, and issue a report on such strategy;
(e) No later than 2 years from the date of this order, develop recommendations on performance measures for all United States Government-sponsored international exchange and training programs, and issue a report thereon; and
(f) Develop strategies for expanding public and private partnerships in, and leveraging private sector support for, United States Government-sponsored international exchange and training activities.
Sec. 5. All reports prepared by the Working Group pursuant to section 4 shall be made to the President, through the Director of the United States Information Agency.
Sec. 6. The Working Group shall meet on at least a quarterly basis.
Sec. 7. Any expenses incurred by a member of the Working Group in connection with such member's service on the Working Group shall be borne by the member's respective department or agency.
Sec. 8. If any member of the Working Group disagrees with respect to any matter in any report prepared pursuant to section 4, such member may prepare a statement setting forth the reasons for such disagreement and such statement shall be appended to, and considered a part of, the report.
Sec. 9. Nothing in this Executive order is intended to alter the authorities and responsibilities of the head of any department or agency.
William J. Clinton
The White House,
July 15, 1997.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:15 a.m., July 18, 1997]