By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the High-Performance Computing Act of 1991 (Public Law 102-194) ("Act"), and in order to establish an advisory committee on high-performance computing and communications, Information Technology, and the Next Generation Internet, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment. There is established the "Advisory Committee on High-Performance Computing and Communications, Information Technology, and the Next Generation Internet" ("Committee"). The Committee shall consist of not more than 25 nonfederal members appointed by the President, including representatives of the research, education, and library communities, network providers, and representatives from critical industries. The President shall designate co-chairs from among the members of the Committee.
Sec. 2. Functions. The Committee shall provide the National Science and Technology Council (NSTC), through the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy ("Director"), with advice and information on high-performance computing and communications, information technology, and the Next Generation Internet. The Committee shall provide an independent assessment of:
(1) progress made in implementing the High-Performance Computing and Communications (HPCC) Program;
(2) progress in designing and implementing the Next Generation Internet initiative;
(3) the need to revise the HPCC Program;
(4) balance among components of the HPCC Program;
(5) whether the research and development undertaken pursuant to the HPCC Program is helping to maintain United States leadership in advanced computing and communications technologies and their applications; and
(6) other issues as specified by the Director.
Sec. 3. Administration. To the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations, the Department of Defense shall provide the financial and administrative support for the Committee. Further, the Director of the National Coordination Office for Computing Information, and Communications ("Director of the NCO") shall provide such coordination and technical assistance to the Committee as the co-chairs of the Committee may request.
(a) The heads of executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide to the Committee such information as it may require for the purpose of carrying out its functions.
(b) The co-chairs may, from time to time, invite experts to submit information to the Committee and may form subcommittees or working groups within the Committee to review specific issues.
(c) Members of the Committee shall serve without compensation but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707).
Sec. 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, except that of reporting to the Congress, that are applicable to the Committee shall be performed by the Director of the NCO in accordance with guidelines that have been issued by the Administrator of General Services.
(b) The Committee shall terminate 2 years from the date of this order unless extended by the President prior to such date.
William J. Clinton
The White House,
February 11, 1997.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., February 13, 1997]