By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
In light of the failure of the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola ("UNITA") to comply with its obligations under the "Accordos de Paz," the Lusaka Protocol, and other components of the peace process in Angola, and in furtherance of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1127 of August 28, 1997, 1130 of September 29, 1997, and 1135 of October 29, 1997, I have determined that it is in the foreign policy interests of the United States to restrict the entry into the United States of aliens described in section 1 of this proclamation.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 by the power vested in me as President of the United States by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including sections 212(f) and 215 of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, as amended (8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, hereby find that the entry into the United States of aliens described in section 1 of this proclamation as immigrants or nonimmigrants would, except as provided for in section 2 of this proclamation, be detrimental to the interests of the United States. I do therefore proclaim that:
Section 1. The entry into the United States as immigrants and nonimmigrants of senior officials of UNITA and adult members of their immediate families, is hereby suspended.
Sec. 2. Section 1 shall not apply with respect to any person otherwise covered by section 1 where the entry of such person would not be contrary to the interests of the United States.
Sec. 3. Persons covered by section 1 and 2 shall be identified by the Secretary of State.
Sec. 4. In identifying persons covered by section 2, the Secretary shall consider whether a person otherwise covered by section 1 is an official necessary for the full functioning of the Government of Unity and National Reconciliation, the National Assembly, or the Joint Commission, within the meaning of paragraph 4(a) of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1127 of August 28, 1997.
Sec. 5. This proclamation is effective immediately and shall remain in effect until such time as the Secretary of State determines that it is no longer necessary and should be terminated.
Sec. 6. The Secretary of State is hereby authorized to implement this proclamation pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of State may establish.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twelfth day of December, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-second.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON