By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
In light of the refusal of the military junta in de facto control in Sierra Leone to permit the return to power of the democratically elected government of that country, and in furtherance of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1132 of October 8, 1997, I have determined that it is in the foreign policy interests of the United States to suspend the entry into the United States of aliens described in section 1 of this proclamation.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 by the power vested in me as President of the United States by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including sections 212(f) and 215 of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, as amended (8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185), hereby find that the entry into the United States of aliens described in section 1 of this proclamation, as immigrants or nonimmigrants would, except as provided for in section 2 of this proclamation, be detrimental to the interests of the United States. I do therefore proclaim that:
Section 1. The entry into the United States as immigrants and nonimmigrants of members of the military junta in Sierra Leone and members of their families, is hereby suspended.
Sec. 2. Section 1 shall not apply with respect to any person otherwise covered by section 1 where the entry of such person would not be contrary to the interests of the United States.
Sec. 3. Persons covered by sections 1 and 2 shall be identified by the Secretary of State.
Sec. 4. This proclamation is effective immediately and shall remain in effect until such time as the Secretary of State determines that it is no longer necessary and should be terminated.
Sec. 5. The Secretary of State is hereby authorized to implement this proclamation pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of State may establish.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of January, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-second.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON