By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including sections 212(f) and 215(a)(1) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended (8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a)(1)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in order to delegate appropriate responsibilities to Federal agencies for responding to migration of undocumented aliens in the Caribbean region, it is hereby ordered:
Section 1. Duties and Authorities of Agency Heads. Consistent with applicable law,
(a)(i) The Attorney General may maintain custody, at any location he deems appropriate, of any undocumented aliens he has reason to believe are seeking to enter the United States and who are interdicted or intercepted in the Caribbean region. In this regard, the Attorney General shall provide and operate a facility, or facilities, to house and provide for the needs of any such aliens. Such a facility may be located at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base or any other appropriate location.
(ii) The Attorney General may conduct any screening of such aliens that he deems appropriate, including screening to determine whether such aliens should be returned to their country of origin or transit, or whether they are persons in need of protection who should not be returned without their consent. If the Attorney General institutes such screening, then until a determination is made, the Attorney General shall provide for the custody, care, safety, transportation, and other needs of the aliens. The Attorney General shall continue to provide for the custody, care, safety, transportation, and other needs of aliens who are determined not to be persons in need of protection until such time as they are returned to their country of origin or transit.
 (b)
 The Secretary of State shall provide for the custody, care, safety, transportation, and other needs of undocumented aliens interdicted or intercepted in the Caribbean region whom the Attorney General has identified as persons in need of protection. The Secretary of State shall provide for and execute a process for resettling such persons in need of protection, as appropriate, in countries other than their country of origin, and shall also undertake such diplomatic efforts as may be necessary to address the problem of illegal migration of aliens in the Caribbean region and to facilitate the return of those aliens who are determined not to be persons in need of protection.
 (c)(i) The Secretary of Defense shall make available to the Attorney General and the Secretary of State, for the housing and care of any undocumented aliens interdicted or intercepted in the Caribbean region and taken into their custody, any facilities at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base that are excess to current military needs and the provision of which does not interfere with the operation and security of the base. The Secretary of Defense shall be responsible for providing access to such facilities and perimeter security. The Attorney General and the Secretary of State, respectively, shall be responsible for reimbursement for necessary supporting utilities.
 (ii)
 In the event of a mass migration in the Caribbean region, the Secretary of Defense shall provide support to the Attorney General and the Secretary of State in carrying out the duties described in paragraphs
 (a)
 and (b) of this section regarding the custody, care, safety, transportation, and other needs of the aliens, and shall assume primary responsibility for these duties on a nonreimbursable basis as necessary to contain the threat to national security posed by the
migration. The Secretary of Defense shall also provide support to the Coast Guard in carrying out the duties described in Executive Order 12807 of May 24, 1992, regarding interdiction of migrants.
Sec. 2. Definitions. For purposes of this order, the term "mass migration" means a migration of undocumented aliens that is of such magnitude and duration that it poses a threat to the national security of the United States, as determined by the President.
Sec. 3. Scope.
 (a)
 Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect the authorities and responsibilities set forth in Executive Order 12807 of May 24, 1992.
 (b)
 Nothing in this order shall be construed to make reviewable in any judicial or administrative proceeding, or otherwise, any action, omission, or matter that otherwise would not be reviewable.
 (c)
 This order is intended only to improve the management of the executive branch. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity or otherwise against the United States, its departments, agencies, entities, instrumentalities, officers, employees, or any other person.
 (d)
 Any agency assigned any duties by this order may use the provisions of the Economy Act, 31 U.S.C. 1535 and 1536, to carry out such duties, to the extent permitted by such Act.
 (e)
 This order shall not be construed to require any procedure to determine whether a person is a refugee or otherwise in need of protection.
 GEORGE W. BUSH
The White House,
November 15, 2002.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:24 a.m., November 18, 2002]