By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to enhance the national security, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Policy. In order to enhance the national security of the United States, including preventing, protecting against, responding to, and recovering from natural and manmade disasters, such as acts of terrorism, it is the policy of the United States to promote the education, training, and experience of current and future professionals in national security positions (security professionals) in executive departments and agencies (agencies). 
Sec. 2. National Strategy for Professional Development. Not later than 60 days after the date of this order, the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism (APHS/CT), in coordination with the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs (APNSA), shall submit to the President for approval a National Strategy for the Development of Security Professionals (National Strategy). The National Strategy shall set forth a framework that will provide to security professionals access to integrated education, training, and professional experience opportunities for the purpose of enhancing their mission-related knowledge, skills, and experience and thereby improve their capability to safeguard the security of the Nation. Such opportunities shall be provided across organizations, levels of government, and incident management disciplines, as appropriate. 
Sec. 3. Executive Steering Committee. (a) There is established the Security Professional Development Executive Steering Committee (Steering Committee), which shall facilitate the implementation of the National Strategy. Not later than 120 days after the approval of the National Strategy by the President, the Steering Committee shall submit to the APHS/CT and the APNSA an implementation plan (plan) for the National Strategy, and annually thereafter shall submit to the APHS/CT and the APNSA a status report on the implementation of the plan and any recommendations for changes to the National Strategy. 
(b) The Steering Committee shall consist exclusively of the following members (or their designees who shall be full-time officers or employees of the members' respective agencies): 
(i)     the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, who shall serve as Chair; 
(ii)    the Secretary of State; 
(iii)   the Secretary of the Treasury; 
(iv)    the Secretary of Defense; 
(v)     the Attorney General; 
(vi)    the Secretary of Agriculture; 
(vii)   the Secretary of Labor; 
(viii)  the Secretary of Health and Human Services; 
(ix)    the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development; 
(x)     the Secretary of Transportation; 
(xi)    the Secretary of Energy; 
(xii)   the Secretary of Education; 
(xiii)  the Secretary of Homeland Security; 
(xiv)   the Director of National Intelligence; 
(xv)    the Director of the Office of Management and Budget; and 
(xvi)   such other officers of the United States as the Chair of the Steering Committee may designate from time to time. 
(c) The Steering Committee shall coordinate, to the maximum extent practicable, national security professional development programs and guidance issued by the heads of agencies in order to ensure an integrated approach to such programs. 
(d) The Chair of the Steering Committee shall convene and preside at the meetings of the Steering Committee, set its agenda, coordinate its work, and, as appropriate to deal with particular subject matters, establish subcommittees of the Steering Committee that shall consist exclusively of members of the Steering Committee (or their designees under subsection (b) of this section), and such other full-time or permanent part-time officers or employees of the Federal Government as the Chair may designate. 
Sec. 4. Responsibilities. The head of each agency with national security functions shall: 
(a) identify and enhance existing national security professional development programs and infrastructure, and establish new programs as necessary, in order to fulfill their respective missions to educate, train, and employ security professionals consistent with the National Strategy and, to the maximum extent practicable, the plan and related guidance from the Steering Committee; and 
(b) cooperate with the Steering Committee and provide such information, support, and assistance as the Chair of the Steering Committee may request from time to time. 
Sec. 5. Additional Responsibilities. (a) Except for employees excluded by law, and subject to subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this section, the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, after consultation with the Steering Committee, shall: (i)     consistent with applicable merit-based hiring and advancement principles, lead the establishment of a national security professional development program in accordance with the National Strategy and the plan that provides for interagency and intergovernmental assignments and fellowship opportunities and provides for professional development guidelines for career advancement; and (ii)    issue to agencies rules and guidance or apply existing rules and guidance relating to the establishment of national security professional development programs to implement the National Strategy and the plan; 
(b) The Secretary of Defense shall issue rules or guidance on professional development programs for Department of Defense military personnel, including interagency and intergovernmental assignments and fellowship opportunities, to implement the National Strategy and the plan, as appropriate, and shall coordinate such programs, to the maximum extent practicable, with the Steering Committee; 
(c) The Secretary of State shall issue rules or guidance on national security professional development programs for the Foreign Service, including interagency and intergovernmental exchanges and fellowship opportunities, to implement the National Strategy and the plan, as appropriate, and shall coordinate such programs, to the maximum extent practicable, with the Steering Committee; 
(d) The Director of National Intelligence, in coordination with the heads of agencies of which elements of the intelligence community are a part, shall issue rules or guidance on national security professional development programs for the intelligence community, including interagency and intergovernmental assignments and fellowship opportunities, to implement the National Strategy and the plan, as appropriate, and shall coordinate such programs, to the maximum extent practicable, with the Steering Committee; and 
(e) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall develop a program to provide to Federal, State, local, and tribal government officials education in disaster preparedness, response, and recovery plans and authorities, and training in crisis decision-making skills, consistent with applicable presidential guidance. 
Sec. 6. General Provisions. This order: 
(a) shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and authorities of agencies, or heads of agencies, vested by law, and subject to the availability of appropriations; 
(b) shall not be construed to impair or otherwise affect the authorities of any agency, instrumentality, officer, or employee of the United States under applicable law, including the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budget, administrative, or legislative proposals, or the functions assigned by the President to the Director of the Office of Personnel Management; and 
(c) is not intended to, and does not, create any right, benefit, or privilege, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity, by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person. 
George W. Bush
The White House,
May 17, 2007.