 GENERAL ORDERS, NO. 22
WAR DEPARTMENT,
ADJUTANT-GENERAL'S OFFICE
I. The following order has been received from the President of the United States:
EXECUTIVE MANSION,
 Washington
 ,
 March 9, 1874.
 
It is with deep regret that the President announces to the people of the United States the death of Millard Fillmore, one of his honored predecessors, who died at Buffalo, N.Y., last evening.
The long-continued and useful public service and eminent purity of character of the deceased ex-President will be remembered beyond the days of mourning in which a nation will be thrown by the event which is thus announced.
As a mark of respect to his memory, it is ordered that the Executive Mansion and the several Departments at Washington be draped in mourning until the close of the day on which the funeral shall take place, and that all business be suspended on the day of the funeral.
It is further ordered that the War and Navy Departments cause suitable military and naval honors to be paid on the occasion to the memory of the eminent citizen whose life is now closed.
U.S. GRANT.
By the President:
HAMILTON FISH,
 Secretary of State.
 
II. In compliance with the President's instructions, the troops will be paraded at 10 o'clock a. m. on the day after the receipt of this order at each military post, when the order will be read to them, and the labors of that day will thereafter cease.
The national flag will be displayed at half-staff.
At dawn of day thirteen guns will be fired, and afterwards at intervals of thirty minutes between the rising and setting sun a single gun, and at the close of the day a national salute of thirty-seven guns.
The officers of the Army will wear crape on the left arm and on their swords and the colors of the several regiments will be put in mourning for the period of thirty days.
By order of the Secretary of War:
E. D. TOWNSEND,
 Adjutant-General.
 
 Special Order
NAVY DEPARTMENT,
 Washington,
 
 March 9, 1874.
 
The President of the United States announces the death of ex-President Millard Fillmore in the following order:
In pursuance of the foregoing order, it is hereby directed that the ensign at each naval station and of each vessel of the United States Navy in commission be hoisted at half-mast from sunrise to sunset, and that a gun be fired at intervals of every half hour from sunrise to sunset at each naval station and on board of flagships and of vessels acting singly, on Thursday, the 12th instant, the day of the funeral, where this order may be received in time, otherwise on the day after its receipt.
The officers of the Navy and Marine Corps will wear the usual badge of mourning attached to the sword hilt and on the left arm for the period of thirty days.
GEO. M. ROBESON,
 Secretary of the Navy.