Amendments to General Rules II, III, IV, Departmental Rules V, VIII, Customs Rule III, and Postal Rules II, VI, are hereby made and promulgated as follows:
 GENERAL RULE II.
In line I strike out the word "three" and insert in place thereof the word "four." At the end of the rule insert the following: "4. The classified railway mail service." The rule as thus amended will read:
There shall be four branches of the classified civil service, as follows:
1. The classified departmental service.
2. The classified customs service.
3. The classified postal service.
4. The classified railway mail service,
 GENERAL RULE III.
In Section 9, line 2, after the word "service," insert the words "and the classified railway mail service." The section as thus amended will read:
9. Every applicant for examination for the classified departmental service and the classified railway mail service must support the statements of his application paper by certificates of persons acquainted with him, residents of the State, Territory, or district in which he claims bona fide residence; and the Commission shall prescribe the form and number of such certificates.
In section 10, line 1, after the word "or," insert the words "procured by his;" strike out all after the word "connivance" in line 1 to and including the word "and" in line 3, and in place of the words stricken out insert the words "or any;" strike out all after the word "consent" in line 4 to and including the word "examination" in line 5; strike out the words "for refusing" in line 6; change the period to a comma at the end of line 6 and insert after the comma the words "or to certify him for appointment, or for his removal after appointment." The section as thus amended will read:
10. A false statement made by an applicant, or procured by his connivance, or any deception or fraud practiced by an applicant, or by any person on his behalf with his consent, shall be good cause for refusal to examine such applicant, or to mark his papers after examination, or to certify him for appointment, or for his removal after appointment.
 GENERAL RULE IV.
In section 2 strike out the letter "a," in brackets, in line 2; change the period to a semicolon at the end of line 4; in line 5 strike out the letter "b," in brackets, and strike out all after the word "has" to and including the word "has" in line 7, and write the section as one paragraph. The section as thus amended will read:
2. The Commission may refuse to certify an eligible who is so defective in sight, speech, or hearing, or who is otherwise so defective physically as to be apparently unfit to perform the duties of the position to which he is seeking appointment, or an eligible who has been guilty of crime or of infamous or of notoriously disgraceful conduct.
 DEPARTMENTAL RULE V.
In section 2, paragraph 6, after the word" service" in line 3, insert the words "or the classified railway mail service;" in paragraph 7, line 1, strike out the word "and," and after the word" postal" in the same line insert the words "and railway mail." The section as thus amended will read:
 Local boards.
 --These boards shall be organized at one or more places in each State and Territory where examinations for the classified departmental service or the classified railway mail service are to be held, and shall conduct such examinations; and each shall be composed of persons in the public service residing in the State or Territory in which the board is to act.
 Customs, postal, and railway mail boards.
 --These boards shall conduct such examinations for the classified departmental service as the Commission may direct.
 DEPARTMENTAL RULE VIII.
In section 1, clause (c) , line 1, after the word "post-office," insert "or to the classified railway mail service;" in line 2, after the word "from," strike out the words "such an office" and insert "a classified post-office or the classified railway mail service." The clause as thus amended will read:
(c) From the Post-Office Department to a classified post-office or to the classified railway mail service, and from a classified post-office or the classified railway mail service to the Post-Office Department, upon requisition by the Postmaster-General.
In section 2, line 6, after the word" been," insert" in the classified railway mail service or." The section as thus amended will read:
2. No person may be transferred as herein authorized until the Commission shall have certified to the officer making the transfer requisition that the person whom it is proposed to transfer has passed an examination to test fitness for the place to which he is to be transferred, and that such person has during at least six months preceding the date of the certificate been in the classified railway mail service or in the classified service of the Department, customs district, or post-office from which the transfer is to be made:
 Provided,
 That no person who has been appointed from the copyist register shall be transferred to a place the salary of which is more than $900 per annum until one year after appointment.
 CUSTOMS RULE III.
In section 2, clause (c), at the end of line 1, insert "and the classified railway mail service." The clause as thus amended will read:
(c) Conduct such examinations for the classified departmental service and the classified railway mail service as the Commission may direct.
 POSTAL RULE II.
In section 5, at the end of clause (e) of that section, strike out the period and insert a comma, and after the comma the following:
 Provided,
 That superintendents of mails shall be selected from among the employees of the railway mail service.
The clause as thus amended will read:
Superintendents designated by the Post-Office Department, and reported as such to the Commission,
 Provided,
 That superintendents of mails shall be selected from among the employees of the railway mail service.
 POSTAL RULE VI.
In section 1, clause (a) , after the word "another" in line 1 of that clause, strike out the comma and insert a semicolon, and after the semicolon the following:
From any classified post-office to the classified railway mail service, and from the classified railway mail service to any classified post-office.
In clause (b), after the word "post-office" in line 1, insert "or from the classified railway mail service," and in line 2, after the word "post-office," insert "or to the classified railway mail service."
In section 2, line 6, after the word" certificate" insert "in the classified railway mail service or." The rule as thus amended will read:
1. Transfers may be made as follows:
(a) From one classified post-office to another, from any classified post-office to the classified railway mail service, and from the classified railway mail service to any classified post-office, upon requisition of the Postmaster-General.
(b) From any classified post-office or from the classified railway mail service to the Post-Office Department, and from the Post-Office Department to any classified post-office, or to the classified railway mail service, upon requisition of the Postmaster-General.
2. No person may be transferred as herein authorized until the Commission shall have certified to the officer making the transfer requisition that the person whom it is proposed to transfer has passed an examination to test fitness for the place to which he is to be transferred, and that such person has been at least six months next preceding the date of the certificate in the classified railway mail service or in the classified service of the Department or post-office from which the transfer is to be made.
Approved, January 4, 1889.
GROVER CLEVELAND