The civil-service rules are hereby amended as follows:
 GENERAL RULE II.
In line I strike out the word "four" and insert in lieu thereof the word "five." Add at the end of the rule the following:
5. The classified Indian service.
 GENERAL RULE III.
Strike out paragraphs 1 and 2 of section 6 of General Rule III and insert in lieu thereof the following:
So far as practicable and useful, competitive examinations shall be established in the classified civil service to test fitness for promotion, under such regulations as the Commission may make. Until such regulations have been applied to any part of the classified service promotions therein shall be made in the manner prescribed by the rule applicable thereto.
 DEPARTMENTAL RULE VI.
Strike out the first sentence of section 6 and transfer the remaining sentence to section 5. Change the numbers of sections 7, 8, 9, and 10 to 6, 7, 8, and 9, respectively.
 CUSTOMS RULE III.
Strike out the first sentence of section 5 and transfer the remaining sentence to section 4. Change the numbers of sections 6, 7, 8, and 9 to 5, 6, 7, and 8, respectively.
 POSTAL RULE III.
Strike out the first sentence of section 5 and transfer the remaining sentence to section 4. Change the numbers of sections 6, 7, 8, and 9 to 5, 6, 7, and 8, respectively.
 RAILWAY MAIL RULE III.
Strike out the first sentence of section 7 and transfer the remaining sentence to section 4. Change the numbers of sections 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12 to 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11, respectively.
 RAILWAY MAIL RULE II.
Insert an additional clause to section 5, as follows:
(f) Transfer clerks at junction points or stations where not more than two such clerks are employed.
 RAILWAY MAIL RULE IV.
Insert an additional proviso at the end of clause (b) of section 2, as follows:
 Provided further
 , That on a line on which the service does not require the full time of a clerk, and one can be employed jointly with the railroad company, the appointment may be made without examination and certification, with the consent of the Commission, upon a statement of the facts by the General Superintendent; but no clerk so appointed shall be eligible for transfer or appointment to any other place in the service.
In section 6, line 3, strike out the word "twenty" and insert in lieu thereof the word "ten."
In section 7, line 6, strike out the word "thirty" and insert in lieu thereof the word "sixty;" in the same line strike out the word "to" and insert in lieu thereof the words "in periods of;" in line 7 strike out the words "who have been in the railway mail service."
BENJ. HARRISON