By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes, by the Act of March 11, 1941, entitled "An Act to promote the defense of the United States" (hereafter referred to as the Act), and by the "Defense Aid Supplemental Appropriation Act, 1941," and acts amendatory or supplemental thereto, in order to define further the functions and duties of the Office for Emergency Management of the Executive Office of the President in respect to the national emergency as declared by the President on May 27, 1941, and in order to provide for the more effective administration of those Acts in the interests of national defense, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. There shall be in the Office for Emergency Management of the Executive Office of the President an Office of Lend-Lease Administration, at the head of which shall be an Administrator, appointed by the President, who shall receive compensation at such rate as the President shall approve, and, in addition, shall be entitled to actual and necessary transportation, subsistence, and other expenses incidental to the performance of his duties.
2. Subject to such policies as the President may from time to time prescribe, the Administrator is hereby authorized and directed, pursuant to Section 9 of the Act, to exercise any power or authority conferred upon the President by that Act and by the Defense Aid Supplemental Appropriation Act, 1941, and any acts amendatory or supplemental thereto, with respect to any Nation whose defense the President shall have found to be vital to the defense of the United States: Provided, That the master agreement with each Nation receiving lend-lease aid, setting forth the general terms and conditions under which such Nation is receiving such aid, shall continue to be negotiated by the State Department, with the advice of the Economic Defense Board and the Lend-Lease Administration.
3. The Administrator shall make appropriate arrangements with the Economic Defense Board for the review and clearance of those lend-lease transactions which in the judgment of the Board affect the economic defense of the United States as defined in Executive Order No. 8839 of July 30, 1941.
4. Within the limitation of such funds as may be made available for that purpose, the Administrator may appoint one or more Deputy or Assistant Administrators and other personnel, delegate to them any power or authority conferred by these orders, and make provision for such supplies, facilities, and services as shall be necessary to carry out the provisions of this Order. In so far as practicable, the Lend-Lease Administration shall use such general business services and facilities as may be made available to it through the Office for Emergency Management or other agencies of the Government.
5. Executive Order No. 8751 of May 2, 1941, establishing the Division of Defense Aid Reports and defining its functions and duties, is hereby revoked.