EXECUTIVE ORDER 9277
AWARD OF THE PURPLE HEART TO PERSONS SERVING WITH THE NAVY, MARINE CORPS OR COAST GUARD OF THE UNITED STATES
December 3, 1942
WHEREAS the decoration of the Purple Heart is awarded, as prescribed by Army Regulations of September 4, 1942, [FN1] to persons serving with the Army of the United States; and
WHEREAS it is appropriate that the award of the Purple Heart be authorized to persons serving with the Navy, Marine Corps or Coast Guard of the United States:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, and as Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. The Secretary of the Navy is authorized and directed to award the Purple Heart in the name of the President of the United States to persons who, while heretofore or hereafter serving in any capacity with the Navy, Marine Corps or Coast Guard of the United States, are wounded in action against an enemy of the United States, or as a result of an act of such enemy, provided such would necessitates treatment by a medical officer.
2. Except as authorized in paragraph three hereof, no more than one Purple Heart shall be awarded to any one person, but for each subsequent justification for such an award a Gold Star, or other suitable device shall be awarded, to be worn with the Purple Heart as prescribed by appropriate regulations.
3. The Secretary of the Navy is further authorized and directed to award the Purple Heart posthumously, in the name of the President of the United States, to any persons who, while serving in any capacity with the Navy, Marine Corps or Coast Guard of the United States, since December 6, 1941, are killed in action or who die as a direct result of wounds received in action with an enemy of the United States, or as a result of an act of such enemy. The Purple Heart will be forwarded to the nearest of kin of any person entitled to the posthumous award regardless of whether a previous award has been made to such person.
4. If so authorized by the Secretary of the Navy the award of the Purple Heart may be made by the Commander in Chief of a fleet, or by such other appropriate officers as the Secretary of the Navy may designate.
5. The Secretary of the Navy is authorized to promulgate such regulations as he may deem appropriate to effectuate the purposes hereof. The regulations of the Secretary of the Navy hereunder, and the regulations of the Secretary of War with respect to the award of the Purple Heart to persons serving in any capacity with the Army of the United States, shall, so far as practicable, be of uniform application.
FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT
THE WHITE HOUSE,
December 3, 1942.
FN1 7 F.R. 7477 Exec. Order No. 9277, 7 FR 10125, 1942 WL 4243 (Pres.)