EXECUTIVE ORDER 9294
FURTHER DEFINING OF THE FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES OF THE OFFICE OF DEFENSE TRANSPORTATION
January 4, 1943
By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the United States, as President of the United States and Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy, it is hereby ordered:
I
1. The term 'local passenger transportation equipment' whenever used in this Order shall include buses, street railway cars, trolley coaches, trucks converted for passenger transportation, ferryboats, and other vehicles and vessels used or capable of being used to carry nine or more passengers (including the operator) in public or private carrier service.
2. In addition to the functions, duties, and powers conferred upon it by Executive Order No. 8989, approved December 18, 1941, Executive Order No. 9156, approved May 2, 1942, and Executive Order No. 9214, approved August 5, 1942, the Office of Defense Transportation shall:
a. Advise and assist Federal departments and agencies, State and local governments, and private organizations in surveying the need for and planning the provision of transportation service for the movement of personnel to and from was plants and establishments, and where necessary, initiate and develop such surveys and plans. Due consideration should be given in making such surveys and plans to all transportation needs of each area, including those related to production in the war effort, agricultural as well as industrial, to military and naval establishments, and to essential civilian services.
b. Review and approve such contracts, agreements, or arrangements hereafter made by Federal departments and agencies, or by private firms (except common carriers) holding contracts from such departments and agencies, for the purchase, lease, requisition, or use of new or used local passenger transportation equipment, as the Director considers necessary to ensure the proper provision of passenger transportation services to war plants and establishments; in the discretion of the Director, review, approve, or direct the re-negotiation of such contracts, agreements, or arrangements now in effect, except those on which final payment has been made prior to the date of this Order.
c. Advise the War Production Board on the allocation of new local passenger transportation equipment; and, as necessity arises, recommend to the War Production Board programs and procedures for controlling the transfer and placement of used local passenger transportation equipment.
3. No Federal department or agency or private firm (except common carriers) holding a contract from such department or agency shall hereafter complete arrangements for the purchase, lease, requisition, or use of local passenger transportation equipment without giving prior notice thereof to the Office of Defense Transportation, and, if the Director considers it necessary, without submitting the contract, agreement, or arrangement to the Office of Defense Transportation for review and approval. The Office of Defense Transportation shall establish appropriate procedures for carrying out the purpose of this Order and each affected department or agency shall designate an official representative to advise with the Office of Defense Transportation on such matters.
4. Nothing herein shall be deemed in any way to limit the functions and authority of the Chairman of the War Production Board under paragraph 4 of Executive Order No. 8989 of December 18, 1941, and paragraph 1(a) of Executive Order No. 9040 of January 24, 1942, of the War Shipping Administrator, or of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
5. The provisions of this Order respecting the use of local passenger transportation equipment shall not apply to movements of military and naval personnel when on maneuvers, on trips made under orders, or on other special operations necessary for the prosecution of the war.
II
1. The Office of Defense Transportation shall include within the scope of its authority as defined in this and all other Orders defining its functions all domestic transportation within the territories and possessions of the United States.
2. The Director of the Office of Defense Transportation is hereby designated as the head of any agency which may initiate action for the requisitioning of property under the terms of and in accordance with the procedures established by Executive Order No. 8942, approved November 19, 1941.
FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT
THE WHITE HOUSE,
January 4, 1943.
Exec. Order No. 9294, 8 FR 221, 1943 WL 4050 (Pres.)