By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States and as Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. The Secretary of Commerce, hereinafter referred to as the Secretary, is hereby authorized to provide and issue, under such regulations as he may prescribe, a Coast and Geodetic Survey Distinguished Service Ribbon to any commissioned officer of the Coast and Geodetic Survey or to any ship's officer or member of the crew of any Coast and Geodetic Survey ship who since September 8, 1939, has distinguished himself, or during the present war shall distinguish himself, by outstanding conduct or service in the line of duty.
2. The Secretary is hereby authorized to provide and issue, under such regulations as he may prescribe, a Coast and Geodetic Survey Meritorious Service Ribbon to any commissioned officer of the Coast and Geodetic Survey or to any ship's officer or member of the crew of any Coast and Geodetic Survey ship who since September 8, 1939, has rendered, or during the present war shall render, service of a meritorious character but not of such an outstanding character as would warrant an award of the Coast and Geodetic Survey Distinguished Service Ribbon.
3. The Secretary is hereby authorized to provide and issue, under such regulations as he may prescribe, a Coast and Geodetic Survey Good Conduct Ribbon to members of the crew of Coast and Geodetic Survey vessels for exemplary behavior, efficiency, and fidelity.
4. The Secretary is hereby authorized to provide and issued, under such regulations as he may prescribe, a Coast and Geodetic Survey Atlantic War Zone Ribbon and a Coast and Geodetic Survey Pacific War Zone Ribbon to each commissioned officer of the Coast and Geodetic Survey and to each ship's officer or member of the crew of any Coast and Geodetic Survey ship who during any period between December 7, 1941, and a date six months subsequent to the termination of the present war shall have service outside the continental limits of the United States in the Atlantic and Pacific areas, respectively, such areas to be more precisely defined in the regulations hereby authorized.
5. The Secretary is hereby authorized to provide and issue, under such regulations as he may prescribe, a coast and Geodetic Survey Defense Service Ribbon to each commissioned officer of the Coast and Geodetic Survey, and to each ship's officer or member of the crew of any Coast and Geodetic Survey ship who served at any time during the period beginning September 8, 1939, and ending December 6, 1941.
6. No more than one ribbon of each type herein authorized shall be issued to any one person, but for each succeeding deed or service justifying a similar award a suitable device may be awarded to be worn with the ribbon.
7. Ribbons authorized herein shall be awarded only for services performed under jurisdiction of the Secretary of Commerce, except the Good Conduct Ribbon authorized in paragraph 3. War Zone ribbons for any area shall not be awarded to persons eligible for Army or Navy area campaign medals for services in the same area.
8. The Secretary is hereby authorized to provide and issue an appropriate medal, with suitable appurtenances, to the recipient of any ribbon at such time as he may determine, and when necessary funds are available therefor.
9. The design of the medals and ribbons herein authorized shall not duplicate the design of any medals or ribbons awarded by the War or Navy Department or the War Shipping Administration.
10. The Secretary may delegate his authority hereunder and may issue such other regulations as may be appropriate to carry out the provisions of this order.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
July 21, 1945