By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes, including Title I of the First War Powers Act, 1941, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. The Office of Inter-American Affairs (established as the Office of Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs by Executive Order No. 8840 of July 30, 1941, and renamed the Office of Inter-American Affairs by Executive Order No. 9532 of March 23, 1945), hereinafter referred to as the Office, is terminated.
2. There are transferred to the Secretary of State all functions of the Director of the Office with respect to the following-named corporations, namely, the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc., the Institute of Inter-American Transportation, the Inter-American Navigation Corporation, and Prencin-radio, Inc., together with all rights and interest, authority, and obligations of the Director and of his predecessors with respect to such corporations. All other functions of the Director are terminated. The Director shall, prior to the effective date of this order, take such steps as may be appropriate and necessary on his part to effectuate the provisions of this order, including the turning over to the Secretary of State of the capital stock of the said corporations.
3. There are transferred to the Department of State (a) all of the functions of the Office with respect to the aforesaid corporations, (b) the duty of winding up any affairs relating to the Office and functions terminated by this order which shall remain unliquidated on the effective date of this order, (c) the records, property, and funds of the Office, and (d) so much of the personnel of the Office as shall remain therein on the effective date of this order. All other functions of the Office are terminated.
4. As soon as possible after the promulgation of this order the Secretary of State shall furnish the Director of the Office as the Secretary shall determine to be required by the Department of State for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this order; and the Director shall, prior to the effective date of this order, separate from the service or transfer to other Government agencies the personnel of the Office excluded from such personnel list.
5. Except as otherwise provided in this order, the provisions hereof shall take effect as of the opening of business May 20, 1946.
6. All provisions of prior Executive orders in conflict with this order are amended accordingly.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
April 10, 1946