 By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution, by section 1753 of the Revised States (5 U. S. C. 631), by the Civil Service Act of January 16, 1883 (22 Stat. 403), and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows, effective May 1, 1947:
PART I - ORGANIZATION FOR PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION
Organization for personnel administration in the executive branch of the Federal Government is hereby prescribed as follows:
§ 01.1 Responsibility for personnel management. Personnel management is primarily the responsibility of all who plan, direct, or supervise the work of Federal employees. Personnel management methods should be consistent for the Government as a single employer and yet be sufficiently flexible to meet the diversified conditions in the Federal service. 
§ 01.2 Civil Service Commission responsibilities under this order. (a) The Commission shall be responsible to the President for the proper application of the Civil Service Act and Rules, the Veterans' Preference Act, and all other applicable statues and Executive orders imposing responsibilities on the Commission.
(b) The Commission shall exercise and provide leadership in personnel matters throughout the Federal service, and in the discharge of this responsibility shall whenever practicable, consult Federal agencies.
(c) The Commission shall develop and promulgate standards, applicable to the competitive service and designed to protect and promote its efficiency, for the reinstatement or reemployment of former Federal employees, and for the promotion, demotion, reassignment, and transfer of present employees. The Commission shall also define the restoration rights of persons who left the Federal service to enter the armed forces of the Untied States in such a manner as to give full effect to section 8 of the Selective Training and Service Act.
(d) The Commission shall prescribe procedures to be followed by agencies in connection with removals, demotions and suspension in the competitive service which will insure equitable and uniform treatment to employees against whom adverse action is proposed.
(e) The Commission shall, when consistent with law and with the economical and efficient management of the Government, delegate to the agencies its authority to act in personnel matters in accordance with standards issued by the Commission.
(f) The Commission shall maintain and adequate system of inspection to determine that equitable and sound application of statutes, Executive orders, regulations and standards relating to personnel management is being carried out by the agencies. Whenever the inspection indicates failure on the part of an agency to adhere to established policies, regulations and standards, the Commission shall take such action as may be appropriate to bring about adherence thereto. In this connection, the Commission may suspend or revoke any delegation of its authority.
(g) The Commission shall in the exercise of its personnel functions give all practicable assistance to international organization in which the United States participates, to the Puerto Rico civil service board, and to such Federal, Territorial, State, or local agencies shall request its cooperation and offer like cooperation, including, when appropriate, the sharing of any necessary expenses. Under such regulations as may be jointly agreed upon, the Commission shall conduct or join with such agencies in conducting examinations or other personnel functions. In its discretion, the Commission may certify eligibles from appropriate registers maintained by the Puerto Rico civil service board, Federal or Territorial boards, or civil service boards of State and local agencies, if such boards agree, and the Commission finds that the requirement of law concerning appointments to the competitive service have been met. If such boards so desire, they may, upon agreement with the Commission, certify eligibles from the appropriate registers maintained by the Commission.
§01.3 Agency responsibilities for personnel management. (a) The head of each agency, in accordance with applicable statutes, Executive orders, and rules shall be responsible for personnel management in his agency. To assist and advise him in carrying out this responsibility he shall maintain or establish such office or division of personnel as may be required. He shall designate a director of personnel or other similarly responsible official to be in charge of such office or division. Such director or other official shall represent the head of the agency in personnel matters, subject to his instructions.
(b) The head of each agency shall provide for the cooperation of his agency with the Civil Service Commission in the conduct of personnel matters.
(c) Authority for the conduct of personnel matters within each agency should be delegated to the extent compatible with provisions of law and with economical and efficient administration to those officials responsible for planning, directing, and supervising the work of others. The exercise of such delegated authority shall be subject to policies, rules, regulations and standards established by the head of the agency, and shall be subject to appropriate review and inspection.
(d) The head of each agency shall remove, demote, ore reassign to other position any employee in the competitive service whose conduct or capacity is such that his removal, demotion or reassignment will promote the efficiency of the service.
§01.4 Committees of expert examiners and boards of examiners. (a) In order to promote the effective recruitment and placement of persons for the Federal service, the departmental and field service resources of the Federal agencies may be utilized to the extent permitted by law. After consulting the agency or agencies concerned, the Commission may establish in the departmental service committees of examiners, expert in their respective fields, for scientific, professional, or technical positions, and in the field service, boards of examiners for any position. If such a position is peculiar to any agency, the committee or board shall be composed of not less than three qualified officers or employees of the agency concerned. If such a position exists in more than one agency, the committee or board shall be composed of not less than three qualified officers or employees of the agencies concerned.
(b) The work of the committees or boards referred to in this section shall be under the direction and supervision of the Commission in connection with the execution of the Civil Service Act, Rules, and Regulations.
(c) The duties performed by the members of such committees or boards shall be considered part of their official duties and adequate time shall be allowed for their performance by the agency in which they are employed.
(d) Where qualified examiners are not readily available in the Federal service, and to the extent permitted by law, the Commission or the agency concerned may designate and compensate individuals outside the service especially qualified by experience and training to serve as examiners.
§01.5 Federal Personnel Council. (a) The Council of Personnel Administration shall hereafter be known as the Federal Personnel Council and shall be continued with the Civil Service Commission.
(b) The membership of the Council shall consist of a chairman, the director of personnel or official responsible for personnel matters in each agency subject to the Civil Service Rules, one additional member designated by the Director of the Bureau of the Budget, and such additional member or members as the Commission shall designate.
(c) The Chairman of the Council shall be appointed by the Civil Service Commission after consultation with the Council and shall serve as a member of the staff of the Commission.
(d) The purpose of the Council, functioning as an advisory body, shall be to promote through study and discussion the application, interpretation, and development of personnel policies and practices. Its findings and recommendations shall be submitted to the Commission and may be submitted to the President or to other Federal agencies.
(e) Where there are substantial concentrations of Federal agencies in a geographical area, subsidiary councils may be established and maintained as recommended by the Council and approved by the Commission. The membership of such councils shall consist of the heads of field establishments in such areas or their designated representatives and of the designated representatives of the commission.
PART II - CIVIL SERVICE RULES
The Civil Service Rules are hereby amended to read as follows:
RULE 1 - COVERAGE OF THESE RULES
§1.1 Positions and employees affected by these rules. (a) These Rules shall apply to all positions in the competitive service. As used in these Rules, the words "competitive service" shall have the same meaning as the words "classified service", or "classified (competitive) service," or "classified civil service" as defined in existing statutes and Executive orders. The competitive service shall include all civilian positions in the executive branch of the Government unless specifically excerpted therefrom under statute or Executive order, and all positions in the legislative and judicial branches of the Federal Government and in the Government of the District of Columbia which are specifically made subject thereto by statute. Whenever there is a doubt the Commission shall determine whether a position is in the competitive service.
(b) Persons occupying such positions shall be considered as being in the competitive service when they have competitive status. A competitive status shall mean a status which permits a person to be promoted, transferred, reassigned, and reinstated to positions in the competitive service without competitive examination, subject to the conditions prescribed by the Civil Service Rules and Regulations for such noncompetitive actions. A competitive status shall be acquired by probational appointment through competitive examination, or may be granted by statute, Executive order, or the Civil Service Rules.
RULE II - APPOINTMENT THROUGH THE COMPETITIVE SYSTEM
§2.1 Competitive examinations and eligible registers. (a) The Commission shall be responsible for open, competitive examinations for admission to the competitive service which will fairly test the relative capacity and fitness of the persons examined for the position to be filled. The Commission is authorized to establish standards with respect to citizenship, age, education, training and experience, suitability, and physical and mental fitness, and for residence or other requirements which applicants must meet to be admitted to or rated in examinations.
(b) In addition to the names of persons who qualify in competitive examinations, the names of persons who lost eligibility on a probational register because of service in the armed forces subsequent to May 1, 1940, and the names of persons having a competitive status whom the Commission determines should be given further certification may also be entered at such places as appropriate registers and under such conditions as the Commission may prescribe.
§2.2 Apportionment. Subject to such modifications as the Commission finds to be necessary in the interest of good administration, appointments to positions in agencies' headquarters offices which are located within the metropolitan area of Washington, D.C., shall be made so as to maintain the apportionment of appointments among the several States, Territories, and the District of Columbia upon the basis of population.
§2.3 Probational and temporary appointments. (a) Persons selected from eligible registers for other than temporary appointment shall be required to serve a probationary period under such terms and conditions as the Commission may prescribe.
(b) The Commission may determine the types, durations and conditions of war service and other temporary appointments, and may prescribe the method for replacing persons holding such appointments.
RULE III - ACQUISITION OF A COMPETITVE STATUS
§3.1 Classes of persons who may acquire status. (a) A person may acquire a competitive status by probational appointment through competitive examination, or by statute, Executive order, or this Rule.
(b) Subject to such noncompetitive examination time limits, or other requirements as the Commission may prescribe, the following classes of persons may acquire a competitive status:
(1) Any person holding a permanent positions when it is placed in the competitive service by statue or Executive order or is otherwise made subject to competitive examination.
(2) Any person entitled to veteran preference who establishes the present existence of a service-connected disability of not less than 10 percent, or any person entitled to wife or widow preference under the Veterans' Preference Act, when such person is service under a war service indefinite appointment, a temporary appointment pending establishment of a register, or a temporary appointment for job employment which has been continuous for more than one year.
(3) Any disabled veteran who, in a manner satisfactory to the Commission, has completed a course of training in the executive branch of the Government prescribed by the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs in accordance with the act of March 24, 1943 (57 Stat. 43).
(4) Any employee who has served at least two years in the immediate office of the President or on the White House Staff and whose transfer to a competitive position is requested by any agency.
(5) Any employee who is servicing when his name was reached for certification on a civil service register appropriate for the position in which he was serving, provided recommendation for status is made prior to expiration of the register on which his name appears.
(6) An employee who was serving when his name was reached for certification on a civil service register appropriate to the position in which he was serving, provided he was appointed to a competitive position prior to the date such position was placed under the War Service Regulations and stood higher on such register than another eligible who received an original probational appointment therefrom.
(7) An employee who has served at least one year under an appointment not limited to one year or less and has received an eligible rating in an open competitive examination appropriate for the position occupied: Provided, That the lowest rating reached in the regular order of certification does not exceed his rating by more than five point: Provided further, That such employee is about to be replaced as a result of certification by the Commission. A non-veteran employee may not be granted status until all preference eligibles standing higher on the register have been given appropriate consideration under the Veterans' Preference Act.
§3.2 Appointment without competitive examination in rare cases. (a) Subject to receipt of satisfactory evidence of the qualifications of the person to be appointed, the Commission may authorize an appointment in the competitive service with a competitive examination when it finds:
(1) That the duties or compensation of the position are such, or that qualified persons are so rare, that in the interest of good civil service administration, the position cannot be filled through open competitive examination; or
(2) That it is essential to the program in which he is engaged to retain in the service a person who was serving in highly specialized scientific, professional or administrative position during the war period and prior to March 7, 1946, the effective date of the Temporary Civil Service Regulations.
(b) Any subsequent vacancy in such position shall not be filled without competitive position shall not be filled without competitive examination except upon express prior approval of the Commission in accordance with this section. Detailed statements of the reasons for the noncompetitive appointments made under this section shall be made a part of the records of the Commission and shall be published in its annual reports. Any person heretofore or hereafter appointed under this section may acquire a competitive status upon completion of at least one year of satisfactory service and compliance with such requirements as the Commission may prescribe.
RULE IV - GENERAL PROVISIONS
§4.1 Prohibition against political activity. Persons in the executive branch shall retain the right to vote as they choose and to express their opinions on all political subjects and candidates, but such persons shall not use their official authority or influence for the purpose of interfering with an election or affecting the result thereof. Persons occupying positions in the competitive service shall not take any active part in political management or in political campaigns except as may be provided by and pursuant to statute.
§4.2 Attempting to secure withdrawal from competition. The Commission is authorized to take such disciplinary action as it deems appropriate whenever it finds that any person has influenced another person to withdraw from competition for any position in the competitive service for the purpose of either improving or injuring the prospects of any applicant for appointment.
§4.3 Method of filling vacancies. In his discretion an appointing officer may fill any position by appointment through the competitive system from a certificate of eligibles issued under the authority of the Commission, or by promotion, demotion, reassignment, transfer, reinstatement or restoration in accordance with the Civil Service Regulations. He shall exercise his discretion in all personnel actions solely on the basis of merit and fitness and without regard to political or religious affiliations, marital status or race.
§4.4 Personnel reports. Each agency shall report to the Commission, in such manner and at such times as the Commission may prescribe, such personnel information as it may request relating to positions and officers and employees in the competitive service or excepted from the competitive service by statute or Executive order, whether permanent, indefinite, temporary or subject to contract.
RULE V - REGULATIONS INVESTIGATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§5.1 Regulations. (a) The Commission is authorized and directed to promulgate and enforce such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of the Civil Service Act and Rule, the Veterans' Preference Act, and all other applicable statues or Executive orders imposing responsibilities on the Commission.
(b) The Commission is authorized, whenever there shall be practical difficulties and unnecessary hardships in complying with the strict letter of its regulations, to grant a variation from the strict letter of the regulations if the spirit of the same is complied with and the efficiency of the Government sand the integrity of the competitive service are protected and promoted: Provided, That whenever such a variation is made from the regulations the Commission shall record in the minutes of its proceedings (1) the particular practical difficulty or hardship, (2) what is permitted in lieu of what is required by regulation, (3) the circumstances which protect or promote the efficiency of the Government and the integrity of the competitive service, and (4) a statement limiting the application of the variation to the continuation of the conditions which gave rise to the variation; Provided further, That similar variations shall be granted whenever similar conditions exist. All minutes approved under authority of this section shall be published in the Commission's annual reports.
§5.2 Authority of the Commission to make investigations. The Commission may make appropriate investigations to secure enforcement of the Civil Service Act, Rules, and Regulations, including investigation of the qualifications and suitability of applicants for positions in the competitive service. It may authorize appointments conditioned upon a subsequent determination that the requirements of law or the Civil Service Rules and Regulations have been met.
§5.3 Officers and employees to furnish testimony. All officers and employees in the executive branch, and applicants or eligibles for positions therein, shall give to the Commission or its authorized representatives all information and testimony in regard to matters inquired of arising under the Civil Service Act, Rules, and Regulations. Whenever required by the Commission, such persons shall subscribe such testimony and make oath or affirmation thereto before an officer authorized by law to administer oaths.
§5.4 Authority of the Commission to issue instructions as to discipline or separation. Whenever the Commission finds that an appointment has been made in violation of the Civil Service Act, Rules or Regulations, or that any employee subject thereto has violated such Act, Rules, or Regulations or is holding a position in violation thereof, it is authorized, after giving due notice and opportunity for explanation to the employee and the agency concerned, to certify the facts to the proper appointing officer with specific instructions as to discipline or dismissal.
§5.5 Withholding salary. If the appointing officers fails to carry out the instructions of the Commission issued under §5.4 of this Rule, the Commission shall certify the facts to the head of the agency concerned. If the head of the agency fails to carry out the instructions of the Commission within ten days after receipt thereof, the Commission shall notify the Comptroller General of the United States and no payment or allowance shall be made of the salary or wages accruing to the employee concerned after such notification.
RULE VI - EXCEPTIONS FROM THE COMPETITIVE SERVICE
§6.1 Positions excepted from the competitive service (a) Because of their confidential or policy-determining character, or because it is not practicable to make appointments thereto through competitive examination, the positions named in Schedules A and B, set for in §6.4 of this Rule shall be excepted from the competitive service. The Commission may, upon the request of an agency, determine that similar positions also should be excepted from the competitive service. Upon publication in the Federal Register of its determination excepting such positions from the competitive service, appointment thereafter may be made to such positions in the same manner as under Schedules A and B (§6.4). At the end of each fiscal year the Commission shall submit to the President for review a list of the positions which it has excepted from the competitive service under this section during such year.
(b) Appointments to positions in Schedule A (§6.4 (a)) may be made without examination by the Commission.
(c) Appointments to positions in Schedule B (§6.4 (b)) shall be subject to such noncompetitive examination as the Commission may prescribe.
(d) Appointments under either Schedule A or B (§6.4) shall not confer a competitive status. Final decision as to whether the duties of a particular position are such that appointment to it is authorized under Schedule A or B (§6.4): Provided, That such revocation shall be published in the Federal Register. 
(d) An appointing officer in his discretion may fill any position in Schedule A or B (§6.4) or any position excepted from the competitive service by statute in the same manner as competitive positions are filled.
(f) Whenever any position in Schedule A or B (§6.4) is occupied by a person having competitive status, he shall be separated from such position only in accordance with the provisions of this order and the Civil Service Rules and Regulations. Whenever any position excepted from the competitive service by statute is occupied by a person having a competitive status he shall not be entitled to the protection against separation provided by such Rules and Regulations.
§6.2 Assignment of excepted employees. Any person appointed without competitive examination to a position in Schedule A or B (§6.4), or to a position excepted from the competitive service by statute, shall not be assigned to the work of a position in the competitive service without prior approval of the Commission.
§6.3 Requirements of the Veterans' Preference Act. The regulations issued by the Commission pursuant to section 11 of the Veterans' Preference Act shall apply to positions listed in Schedule A and B (§6.4) and positions excepted from the competitive service by statute.
§6.4 Lists of positions excepted from the competitive service - (a) Schedule A. The following positions are those excepted from the competitive service to which appointments may be made without examination by the Commission, and constitute Schedule A of the Civil Service Rules:
(1) Entire Executive Service, (i) Chaplains.
(ii) Cooks, except at fixed locations such as, hospitals, quarantine stations, and penal institution.
(iii) Positions to which appointments are made by the President without confirmation by the Senate.
(iv) Attorneys.
(v) Chinese, Japanese, and Hindu interpreters.
(vi) Any position in which the appointee will receive compensation aggregating not more than $720 per annum, the duties of which are part-time or intermittent, but such appointments shall not be for job employment. In Washington, D. C., such appointments shall be subject to the prior approval of the Commission. All such employment shall be reported on the regular reports of personnel action; and in addition, unless payment is at a per annum rate of $720 or less, the total service rendered and its distribution shall be shown on reports submitted at the end of each calendar year; if separation occurs prior to the close of a calendar year, report should be submitted at the time of separation. Additional employment of the appointee by another agency, under similar conditions, shall be subject to the prior approval of the Commission.
(vii) Any position in a foreign country, or beyond the continental limits of the United States, when in the opinion of the Commission, appointment through competitive examination is impracticable, except as provided in subdivisions (viii) and (ix) of this subparagraph, and except the following:
(a) All positions in Hawaii;
(b) Positions in the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Department of Justice, in Canada and Mexico;
(c) Positions in the Bureau of Customs, Treasury Department, in foreign countries, in Puerto Rico and in the Virgin Islands.
(viii) Positions on the Isthmus of Panama, except: accountant, architect, architectural designer, bookkeeper, calculating machine operator, chemist, clerk (paying more than $150 in U. S. currency per month), custodian, dietitian, draftsman, employee counselor, medical technician, personnel aid, personnel assistant, pharmacist, physician, play-ground director, statistician, stenographer, storekeeper, surgeon, trained nurse, typist, and harbor personnel of the Quartermaster Corps, War Department.
(ix) Positions in Alaska, when, in the opinion of the Commission, appointment through competitive examination in impracticable. Persons formerly appointed under this subdivision may be reinstated to positions in Alaska with the approval of the Commission.
(x) Temporary, part-time, or intermittent employments of mechanics, skilled laborers, and tradesmen on construction or repair work in places where there is o local board of examiners of the Civil Service Commission for the employment establishment, when, in the opinion of the Commission, appointment through competitive examination is impracticable. Seasonal employments of a recurring nature are not authorized under this subdivision.
(xi) Any position directly concerned with the protection of the life and safety of the President and the members of his family.
(xii) Positions without compensation provided such appointments meet the requirements of applicable laws relating to compensation.
(xiii) Professional, scientific and technical excepts for temporary, part-time or intermittent employment for consultation purposes.
(xiv) Unskilled laborers at any city, locality or establishment where the Labor Regulations were not in effect on July 1, 1941. The Commission, with the concurrence of the department or agency concerned, may include within the competitive civil service unskilled laborer positions at any such city, locality, or establishment.
(xv) Any local physician, surgeon, or dentist employed under contract or on a part-time or fee basis, when, in the opinion of the Commission, appointment through competitive examination is impracticable.
(2) State Department. (i) Five special assistants to the Secretary of State.
(ii) All positions under international commissions, congresses, conferences, and boards, except the International Joint Commission; the International Boundary Commission, United States and Mexico; and the International Boundary Commission, United States, Alaska, and Canada.
(iii) Chief and Assistant Chief of the Foreign Service Buildings Office.
(iv) Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of State.
(v) One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Under Secretary of State, the Counselor, the Assistant Secretaries of State, the Legal Advisers, and other officials of the Department holding the rank of Assistant Secretary of State.
(vi) One chauffeur for the Secretary of State.
(vii) Gage readers employed part-time or intermittently by the International Boundary Commission, United States and Mexico at isolated localities when, in the opinion of the Commission, appointment through competitive examination is impracticable.
(viii) Temporary field employees of the International Boundary Commission, United States, Alaska, and Canada, such as instrument men, foremen, recorders, packers, cooks, and axemen, for not to exceed 180 working days a year.
(3) Treasury Department. (i) Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of the Treasury, and one to each Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, and one to the Under Secretary of the Treasury.
(ii) Special employees in the field service of the Bureau of Narcotics; and special employees for temporary detective work in the field service of the Bureau of Internal Revenue under the appropriation for detecting and bringing to trial and punishment persons violating the internal revenue laws. Appointments under this subdivision shall be limited to persons whose services are required because of individual knowledge of violations of the law, and such appointments shall be continued only so long as the personal knowledge possessed by the appointee of such violation makes his services necessary. This exemption from competition is for special and unusual cases only and report shall be made to the Commission by letter as soon as the appointment is made.
(iii) Bureau of Customs: Positions in the foreign countries designated as "interpreter-translator" and "special employees," when filled by appointment of persons who are not citizens of the United States; and positions in foreign countries of messenger and janitor.
(iv) Coast Guard: Lamplighters.
(v) Five assistants to the Secretary of the Treasury.
(vi) Receivers of insolvent national banks and other financial institutions which are filled by appointment by the Comptroller of the Currency and whose salaries are paid directly from the funds of insolvent institutions.
(vii) One assistant to the Under Secretary of the Treasury.
(viii) Until December 31, 1947, positions of Chief National Bank Examiner, Assistant Chief National Bank Examiner, District Chief National Bank Examiner, National Bank Examiner, and Assistant National Bank Examiner, in the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, whose salaries are paid from assessments against national banks and other financial institutions.
(ix) Until December 31, 19476, positions of the State Director and Deputy State Director of the U. S. Savings Bonds Division.
(4) War Department. (i) Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of War and one to each Assistant Secretary of War.
(ii) One chauffeur for the Secretary of War.
(iii) Transportation Corps: Longshoremen and stevedores employed at ports of embarkation in the United States; and all positions on vessels operated by the Transportation Corps.
(iv) Positions the duties of which are of a quasi-military nature and involve the security of secret or confidential matter, when in the opinion of the Commission, appointment through competitive examination is impracticable.
(v) Student assistant positions under the Office of the President, Mississippi River Commission, concerned with scientific engineering investigations when filled by the appointment of students in attendance at colleges and universities of recognized standing, Provided, That substantial contributions to the investigations are made by such colleges and universities in money, services, advice or materials, or in the use of buildings, laboratories, equipment, facilities, or otherwise. Such employment may be continued under this authority only so long as the appointee is a bona fide student in a particular college or university and receives academic credit toward a degree for the work he is performing: And provided, That appointments to such positions will not exceed fifteen in number at any particular time, and will be for a period not to exceed nine months.
(vi) Land appraisers employed in the Engineer Department on a temporary or indefinite basis for specific projects where knowledge of local values or conditions or other specialized qualification not possessed by appraisers regularly employed by the Department are required for successful results.
(vii) Caretakers of abandoned military reservations or of abandoned or unoccupied military posts when the positions are filled by retired noncommissioned officers or enlisted men.
(viii) Civilian professors, instructors, teachers, hostesses, chapel organist and choirmaster at the United States Military Academy, West Point, New York, and librarian when filled by an officer of the Regular Army retired from active service, except teachers at the Children's School.
(ix) During the emergency declared by the President to exist on May 27, 1941, all positions in the War Department on the Isthmus of Panama.
(x) Unskilled laborers and munitions handlers engaged in handling Ordnance materiel, including ammunition, where temporary or intermittent employment is necessary
(xi) Messenger boys employed on the Alaska Communications System.
(xii) Internes [sic] (medical and dental) in Army hospitals.
(xiii) During the emergency declared by the President to exist on May 27, 1941, positions in the Army Motion Picture Service and positions of hostess and librarian under the Special Services Division, War Department, assigned to Army posts.
(xiv) Civilian deans and professors at the Army Air Forces Institute of Technology, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio.
(5) Navy Department. (i) Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of the Navy, one to each Assistant Secretary of the Navy and one to the Under Secretary of the Navy.
(ii) Professors, instructors, and teachers in the United States Naval Academy.
(iii) Positions the duties of which are of a quasi-naval character and involve the security of secret or confidential matter, when , in the opinion of the Commission, appointment through competitive examination is impracticable.
(iv) Positions of orderly at the United States Naval Home when filled by the appointment of beneficiaries of the Home.
(v) Technical or professional consultants or advisors at entrance rate of P-5 or its equivalent and above, employed not to exceed six months a year.
(vi) One chauffeur for the Secretary of the Navy.
(vii) Caretakers or guards employed at closed or decommissioned facilities of the Navy Department. Appointments under this subdivision shall not extend beyond six months, except with the prior approval of the Commission.
(6) Department of Justice. (i) Director and three assistant directors of prisons.
(ii) Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Attorney General, and one to each of the following: Assistant to the Attorney General, Solicitor General, Assistant Solicitor General, and each Assistant Attorney General.
(iii) One chauffeur for the Attorney General.
(iv) Eight positions in the immediate office of the Attorney General in addition to those excepted under subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph.
(v) Members of the Board of Parole.
(vi) All positions in the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(vii) One private secretary to the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization.
(viii) Federal Prison Industries, Inc: The Commissioner of Industries.
(ix) Three Deputy Commissioners of Immigration and Naturalization.
(x) Deputy United States Marshals paid on a fee basis.
(xi) Positions of bailiff in the United States courts.
(7) Post Office Department. (i) Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Postmaster General, one to each Assistant Postmaster General, and one to the Solicitor of the Post Office Department.
(ii) One private secretary or confidential assistant to the head of each bureau (or office) in the Post Office Department in Washington, D. C., who is appointed by the President.
(iii) Clerks in fourth class post offices.
(iv) One chauffeur to the Postmaster General.
(v) Four special assistants to the Postmaster General.
(vi) Substitute rural carriers.
(vii) Special delivery messengers in second, third, and fourth class post offices.
(viii) Unskilled laborers employed as janitors and cleaners in small postal unites in leased quarters at a compensation less than $1,700 per annum.
(ix) The Solicitor of the Post Office Department.
(x) Fourth class postmasters in the Hawaiian Islands.
(xi) One private secretary to the Executive Assistant to the Postmaster General.
(8) Department of the Interior. (i) Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of the Interior and one to each Assistant Secretary of the Interior.
(ii) One chauffeur for the Secretary of the Interior.
(iii) Office of the Secretary: One assistant to the Secretary.
(iv) Engineers, geologists, economists, architects and appraisers in a consulting or advisory capacity for temporary, part-time, or intermittent employment. Employments under this subdivision shall not exceed 120 working days a year unless prior permission is given by the Commission for the extension of an additional 120 days. This time limit does not apply to consultants on reclamation work authorized by the act of February 28, 1929, as amended.
(v) Positions in the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Washington, D. C., and in the Field, when filled by the appointment of Indians who are one-fourth or more Indian blood.
(vi) One private secretary or confidential assistant to the head of each bureau of the Interior Department who is appointed by the President, and one each to the Governors of Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands.
(vii) All positions in the Neopit Lumber Mills on the Menominee Indian Reservation in Wisconsin.
(viii) Agricultural extension agents and home demonstration agents employed in field positions in the Indian Service, the work of which is financed jointly by the Indian Service and cooperating persons, organizations or governmental agencies outside the Federal service.
(ix) Office of the Secretary: Six special agents in the Office of Field Representatives to investigate fraudulent entries and other matters of criminal nature.
(x) Temporary, intermittent, or seasonal positions in the field service of the Department of the Interior, when filled by the appointment of persons who are certified as maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence within, or contiguous to, a field activity or district, and as being dependent for livelihood primarily upon employment available within the field activity of the Department, subject to the approval of the Commission.
(xi) Seaman, deckhand, fireman, cook, mess attendant, and water tender on vessels of the Department of the Interior.
(xii) Housekeepers in the Indian Service at a gross salary not in excess of entrance rate grade CPC-1 or its equivalent.
(xiii) Agents in the Fish and Wildlife Service and the Bureau of Land Management employed in field positions, the work of which is financed jointly by the Interior Department and cooperating persons or organizations outside the Federal service.
(xiv) Positions in the field service of the Fish and Wildlife Service concerned with scientific fishery investigations when filled by the appointment of students at colleges and universities of recognized standing: Provided, That substantial contributions to the investigations are made by such college or universities in money, services, or materials or in the use of building, laboratories, equipment or facilities or otherwise. Such employments may be continued under this authority only so long as the appointee is a bona fide student at the particular college or university and receives academic credit toward a degree for the work he is performing for the Fish and Wildlife Service.
(xv) Office of the Secretary: Director and Assistant Director of the Division of Power.
(xvi) Office of the Secretary: One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Director of the Division of Power.
(xvii) National Power Policy Committee: The General Counsel.
(xviii) Temporary or seasonal caretakers at temporarily closed camps or buildings or other structures and prevent damage or theft of Government property. Such appointments shall not extend beyond six months without prior approval of the Commission.
(xix) Temporary, intermittent or seasonal field assistants in forestry, range management, soils, engineering, and with surveying parties, for not to exceed 180 working days a year.
(xx) Puerto Rico Reconstruction Administration: One Administrator and one Head Administrative Officer.
(xxi) Three members of the Federal Petroleum Board.
(xxii) Office of Indian Affairs: The Executive Director of the Indian Arts and Crafts 
Board.
(xxiii) Temporary emergency forest and range fire and blister rust control employees in the field service of the Department of the Interior employed for fire prevention or suppression or blister rust control for not to exceed 120 working days a year.
(xxiv) Bonneville Power Administration: The Administrator.
(xxv) Division of Territories and Island Possessions: The Director of the Division.
(xxvi) Territory of Hawaii: One Hawaiian House Representative.
(xxvii) Virgin Islands: The Administrator of St. Croix, V.I.
(xxviii) Office of the Secretary: Six field representatives whose duties are of a confidential nature.
(9) Department of Agriculture. (1) (a) Agents employed in field positions the work of which is financed jointly by the Department and cooperating persons, organizations, or governmental agencies outside the Federal service.
(b) Local agents, except veterinarians, employed temporarily outside of Washington in demonstrating in their respective localities the necessity of eradicating contagious or infectious animal diseases.
(c) Positions the duties of which require a speaking knowledge of one of the Indian languages.
In making appointments under this subdivision, a full report shall be submitted immediately by the Department to the Commission setting forth the name, designation, and compensation of the appointee and a statement of the duties to which he is to be assigned and of his qualifications for such duties, in such detail as to indicate clearly that the appointment is properly made under one of the above classes. The same procedures shall be followed in case of the assignment of any such agent to duties of a different character.
(ii) One chauffeur for the Secretary of Agriculture.
(iii) Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of Agriculture, one to each Assistant Secretary of Agriculture.
(iv) Student assistants who salaries shall not aggregate more than $832 a year. Only bona fide students at high schools or colleges of recognized standing shall be eligible for appointment under this subdivision. Employments under this subdivision shall not exceed 180 working days a year.
(v) Four assistants to the Secretary in the Office of the Secretary of Agriculture.
(vi) Any local veterinarian employed on a fee basis or a part-time basis when, in the opinion of the Commission, appointment through competitive examination is impracticable.
(vii) The Solicitor of the Department of Agriculture.
(viii) Technical or professional consultants or advisers at salaries equivalent to entrance rate of grade P-5 or higher employed for not to exceed 180 working days a year.
(ix) Temporary seasonal field assistants in grades SP-1 through SP-5 or not to exceed 120 working days a year.
(x) Temporary, intermittent or seasonal clerical, crafts, protective and custodial positions in the field service of the Department of Agriculture at places other than civil service regional headquarters, paying not to exceed entrance rate of CAF-4 or its equivalent, for not to exceed 180 working days a year, whenever in the opinion of the Commission appointment through competitive examination is impracticable.
(xi) Temporary or seasonal caretakers at temporarily closed camps or improved areas. Such appointments shall not extend beyond a period of six months without prior approval of the Commission's regional director.
(xii) Owner-operators of equipment who are residents in the area of employment for periods not to exceed 180 actual working days in any one calendar year.
Bureau of Agricultural Economics. (xiii) Temporary, intermittent field enumerators and supervisors at salaries not exceeding entrance rate of CAF-5 or its equivalent, for not to exceed 180 working days a year.
Farm Credit Administration ((xiv) One private secretary or confidential assistant each to the Governor of the Farm Credit Administration, the Land Bank Commissioner, the Intermediate Credit Commissioner, the Production Credit Commissioner, and the Cooperative Bank Commissioner.
(xv) Positions in the Federal Intermediate Credit Banks, the Production Credit Corporations, the Federal Land Banks, the Banks for Cooperatives, and positions filled by joint officers and employees of these institutions.
(xvi) Positions in the Regional Agricultural Credit Corporations, joint stock land bank receivers, and petitions in receiverships, and national farm loan association receivers and conservators.
(xvii) Temporary, intermittent and seasonal collectors at grades not higher than CAF-5 for not to exceed 180 working days a year.
Commodity Credit Corporations. (xviii) Members of the Board of Directors.
(xix) The President, two Vice Presidents, and one assistant to the President.
Rural Electrification Administration. (xx) One Deputy Administrator.
Forest Service. (xxi) Temporary forest workers employed for not to exceed 180 working days a year, such employment to be with headquarters other than in forest supervisor and regional officers unless employed primarily for fire prevention or suppression activities.
(xxii) Temporary, intermittent or seasonal positions when filled by the appointment of persons who are certified as maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence within, or contiguous to, a national forest and as being dependent for livelihood primarily upon employment available within the national forest, subject to approval by the Commission.
Production and Marketing Administration. (xxiii) The Director, Assistant Directors, Regional Directors, and State Directors of the Field Service Branch.
(xxiv) Members of State Committees of the Field Service Branch.
(xxv) Farmer fieldmen and farmer fieldwomen in the Field Service Branch to interpret and explain and supervise farm programs.
(xxvi) Temporary, intermittent and seasonal employees in the Field Service Branch to check allotments whose aggregate employment shall not exceed 120 working days a year.
(xxvii) Farm fieldmen of the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation.
(xxviii) The Administrator, two Deputy Administrators, three Assistant Administrators, assistants to the Administrator, at salaries equivalent to entrance rate of CAF-13 or higher, ten experts at salaries equivalent to the entrance rate of CAF-13 or higher, for the duration of the war; two private secretaries to the Administrator, and one chauffeur for the Administrator.
(xxix) Loss adjustors employed locally on an intermittent basis to handle adjustments in crop losses under the Federal Crop Insurance Act for not to exceed 120 working days a year.
Farmers' Home Administration. (xxx) The Deputy Administrator and three Assistant Administrators.
(xxxi) Sate and county committeemen to consider, recommend, and advise with respect to the Farmers' Home Administration program.
(10) Executive Office of the President. (i) Bureau of the Budget: One private secretary or confidential assistant each to the Director and Assistant Director.
(11) Department of Commerce. (i) Two private secretaries or confidential assistant to the head of each bureau in the Department of Commerce, and to each Assistant Secretary of Commerce.
(ii) One private secretary or confidential assistant to the head of each bureau in the Department of Commerce who is appointed by the President.
(iii) One chauffeur for the Secretary of Commerce.
(iv) Student assistants in the National Bureau of Standards whose salaries shall not exceed a rate of $832 a year each while employed. Only bona fide students at high schools or colleges of recognized standings pursuing technical or scientific courses shall be eligible for appointment under this subdivision. Appointments shall not exceed six months in any one calendar year, except in especially meritorious cases, and then only upon prior approval of the Commission. Appointments under this subdivision shall be reported to the Commission in such form as the Commission may prescribe.
(v) Seaman, deckhand, fireman, cook, mess attendant, and water tender on vessels of the Department of Commerce.
(vi) Office of the Secretary of Commerce: Six assistants to the Secretary.
(vii) Temporary positions required in connection with the surveying operations of the field service of the Coast and Geodetic Survey as may be authorized by the Commission after consultation with the Department of Commerce. Appointments to such positions shall not exceed eight months in any one calendar year.
(viii) Caretakers and helpers at magnetic and seismological observatories outside continental United States.
(ix) Caretakers and light attendants employed on emergency landing fields and other air navigation facilities.
(x) One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Administrator of the Civil Aeronautics Administration.
(xi) Agents to take and transmit meteorological observations in connection with airways, whose duties require only part of their time, and whose compensation does not exceed $135 a month.
Weather Bureau. (xii) Agents employed in field positions the work of which is financed jointly by the Department of Commerce and cooperating persons, organizations, or governmental agencies outside the Federal Service.
In making appointments under this subdivision, a full report shall be submitted immediately by the Weather Bureau to the Commission, setting forth the name, designation and compensation of the appointee and a statement of his qualifications for such duties ins such details as to indicate clearly that the appointment is properly made under the above subdivision. The name procedure shall be followed in case of the assignment of any such agent to duties of a different character.
Bureau of the Census. (xiii) Supervisors, assistant supervisors, and supervisors' clerks and enumerators in the field service for temporary, part-time, or intermittent employment for not to exceed one year. Such appointments may be extended for not to exceed one year with the express prior approval of the Commission.
(xiv) Employments of individuals, firms, or corporations for not to exceed one year for special statistical studies and statistical compilations, the compensation of which is derived from funds deposited with the Untied States under the act of May 27, 1935 (49 Stat. 292), Provide, That such employments may, with the approval of the Commission, be extended for not to exceed and additional year.
(xv) Special agents employed in collecting cotton statistics.
Inland Waterways Corporation. (xvi) The President, the Vice Presidents, and the Secretary-Treasurer of the Corporation.
(xvii) All members of the Advisory Board.
(xviii) All positions under the Warrior River Terminal Company.
(xix) All unlicensed personnel on vessels operated by the Corporation.
(xx) Wharf laborers.
(12) Interstate Commerce Commission. (i) One private secretary or confidential assistant to each commissioner.
(13) Department of Labor. (i) Commissioners of conciliation in labor disputes whenever in the judgment of the Secretary of Labor the interests of industrial peace so require.
(ii) Office of the Secretary: Three special assistants to the Secretary.
(iii) One private secretary or confidential assistant to the head of each bureau in the Department of Labor who is appointed by the President.
(iv) Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of Labor, one to the Under Secretary of Labor, and one to each Assistant Secretary of Labor.
(v) One chauffeur to the Secretary of Labor.
(vi) Member, Wage Adjustment Board (Labor Representative).
(vii) Member, Wage Adjustment Board (Industry Representative).
(viii) Member, Wage Adjustment Board (Public Representative).
(14) General Accounting Office. (i) One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Comptroller General.
(ii) Two assistants to the Comptroller General.
(15) Board of Governors, Federal Reserve System. (1) All positions.
(16) The Tax Court of the United States. (i) One private secretary and two technical assistants for each Judge of the Court.
(ii) Until December 31, 1947, a Clerk of the Court and a Chief Deputy Clerk.
(iii) One administrative assistant to the Presiding Judge.
(17) Federal Loan Agency; Reconstruction Finance Corporation. (i) A Secretary to the Corporation, two assistants to the Secretary, five Assistant Secretaries, a Treasurer, two assistants to the Treasurer, and four assistant Treasurers.
(ii) Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to each of the following: The Federal Loan Administrator; the Chairman of the Board of Directors. One private secretary or confidential assistant to each of the following; each Member of the Board of Directors (other than the Chairman); the Secretary of the Corporation; The Treasurer of the Corporation; the General Counsel.
(iii) One assistant, and twelve special assistants, to the Board of Directors, and one assistant to each member of the Board of Directors.
(iv) Six administrative assistants and two junior administrative assistants in the Office of the Board of Directors.
(v) Six special representatives (field).
(vi) Four chauffeurs for the Chairman and the members of the Board of Directors.
(vii) All directors, trustees, and officers (President, Vice President, General Counsel, Assistant General Counsel, Secretary, Assistant Secretary, Treasurer, and Assistant Treasurer) or subsidiary or affiliated corporations.
(viii) Any position where the incumbent thereof is serving as director or officer of any subsidiary or affiliated corporation.
(ix) One General Counsel, one Special Counsel and Six Assistant General Counsels.
(x) A Chief Accountant.
(xi) Division Chiefs of the following Divisions: Auditing, Agency, Examining, Railroad, Self-Liquidating, Statistical and Economic, and Information.
(xii) Section Chiefs of the following Sections of the Self-Liquidating Division: Public Agency, Mining, Bond Service and Drainage and Irrigation.
(xiii) Six Assistant Chiefs and three Administrative Assistants in the Examining Division.
(xiv) Two special examiners in the Railroad Division.
(xv) Not to exceed 32 positions of Loan Agency Manager and 36 positions of Assistant Loan Agency Manager.
(xvi) Inventory custodians, watchmen, caretakers, and laborers engaged in the care and preservation of property held by the Corporation or its subsidiaries as security for loans, or property to which title has been acquired by the Corporation or its subsidiaries.
(xvii) Positions of Executive Director of the following offices: Office of Defense Plants, Office of Metals Reserve, Office of Defense Supplies, Office of Rubber Reserve.
(xviii) Chief Administrative Officer of the Price Adjustment Board.
(18) Veterans' Administration. (i) Five special assistants to the Administrator.
(ii) One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Administrator.
(iii) Positions in Veteran's Administration facilities when filled by the appointment of members of such facilities receiving domiciliary care if, in the opinion of the Veterans' Administration, the duties can be satisfactorily performed by such members.
(19) Federal Security Agency. (i) Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Administrator of the Federal Security Agency.
National Office of Vital Statistics. (ii) Supervisors, assistant supervisors, and supervisors' clerks and enumerators in the field service for temporary, part-time, or intermittent employment for not to exceed one year.
Public Health Service. (iii) Special escorts to accompany patients of the Public Health Service in accordance with existing laws and regulations. Employment under this paragraph shall be only for the period of time necessary for the escort to deliver the patient to his destination and return.
(iv) Positions at Government sanatoria when filled by patients during treatment or convalescence.
(v) All positions in leprosy, yellow fever, psittacosis investigation stations.
(vi) Trainees in cancer research.
(vii) Positions concerned with problems in preventive medicine financed or participated in by the Federal Security Agency and a cooperating State, county, municipality, incorporated organization or an individual, in which at least one-half of the expense is contributed by the cooperating agency either in salaries, quarters, materials, equipment, or other necessary elements in the carrying on of the work.
(viii) Professional, technical, or scientific specialists when employed on a fee basis or part-time basis as consultants in connection with problems in preventive medicine, subject to the prior approval of the Commission.
(ix) Internes and externs (medical and dental) and student nurses.
St. Elizabeths [sic] Hospital. (x) Visiting physicians and organist.
Food and Drug Administration. (xi) Professional, technical or scientific specialists when employed intermittently for short periods, not to exceed a total of 60 days in any one year, as members of the Standards Committee for duty in connection with the formulation of definitions and standards of identity and quality for food products, or as consultants upon problems in their specialized fields having to do with the enforcement of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
Freedmen's Hospital. (xii) Pupil nurses, internes, and externs (medical and dental), student dietitians, and resident physicians.
(2) Central Intelligence Group. (i) All positions.
(21) U. S. Maritime Commission. (i) All positions on Government-owned ships operated by the U. S. Maritime Commission.
(22) Twelve positions of Director of Division.
(iii) One assistant to each member of the Commission and two assistants to the Chairman of the Commission.
(iv) Ten special assistants to the United States Maritime Commission.
(v) The Secretary of the Commission.
(vi) The General Counsel.
(vii) One private secretary or confidential assistant to each Commissioner and to the General Counsel.
(viii) The Executive Director.
(ix) The Financial Assistant to the Chairman.
(22) Federal Power Commission. (i) One private secretary and one confidential assistant to each Commissioner.
(ii) A Secretary to the Commission.
(iii) Consultants, experts and special counsel whose employments and compensation are fixed by contract within the limits of special funds appropriated by Congress for this purpose.
(23) Securities and Exchange Commission. (i) One private secretary or confidential assistant to each member of the Commission.
(ii) A Solicitor.
(iii) Director of Trading and Exchange Division, Director of Public Utilities Division, Director of Corporation Finance Division, and Director of Investment Companies Division.
(iv) One Chief Accountant.
(v) One Assistant to the Chairman.
(24) National Railroad Adjustment Board. (i) One private secretary or confidential assistant to each member of the Board.
(25) National Capital Park and Planning Commission. (i) Architectural or engineering consultants, land appraisers and land purchasing officers for temporary, intermittent, or part-time service.
(26) Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. (i) Two special assistants, private secretaries, or confidential assistants to each member of the Board of Directors.
(ii) All field positions concerned with the work of liquidating the assets of closed banks or the liquidation of loans to bank, and all temporary field positions the work of which is concerned with paying the depositors of closed insured banks.
(27) Federal Trade Commission. (i) Seven Chiefs of Division.
(28) National Capital Housing Authority. (i) The Executive Officer.
(29) United States Soldiers' Home. (i) All positions.
(30) Federal Works Agency. (i) Agents employed in field positions the work of which is financed jointly by the Federal Works Agency and cooperating persons, organizations or governmental agencies outside the Federal service [sic].
In making appointments under this subdivision, a full report shall be submitted immediately by the Federal Works Agency to the Commission, setting forth the name, designation and compensation of the appointee and a statement of the duties to which he is to be assigned and of his qualifications for such duties in such detail as to indicate clearly that the appointment is properly made under this subdivision. The same procedure shall be followed incase of the assignment of any such agent to duties of a different character.
Office of the Administrator. (ii) Two expert assistants to the Administrator.
Public Buildings Administration. (iii) The Commissioner of Public Buildings.
(iv) One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Commissioner.
Public Roads Administration. (v) The Commissioner of Public Roads.
(vi) One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Commissioner.
(31) Federal Communications Commission. (i) A Secretary to the Commission.
(ii) One private secretary or confidential assistant to each Commissioner.
(iii) A General Counsel and three Assistant General Counsels.
(iv) A Chief Engineer and three Assistant Chief Engineers.
(v) A Chief Accountant and three Assistant Chief Accountants.
(32) United States Tariff Commission. (i) The Secretary of the Commission and one private secretary or confidential assistant to each Commissioner.
(33) Railroad Retirement Board. (i) Two members of the Actuarial Advisory Committee to be selected by the Board, one from recommendations made by representatives of the employees, and one from the recommendations made by the carriers.
(ii) Two members of each District Board which may be established by the Railroad Retirement Board, one member to be appointed from recommendations made by the representatives of the employees and one from recommendations made by the carriers.
(34) Civil Aeronautics Board. (i) A Secretary to the Board.
(ii) A general Counsel and two Assistant General Counsels.
(iii) Two permanent expert consultants.
(iv) Professional, technical and scientific consultants for temporary, part-time or intermittent employment for periods not to exceed six months in any one calendar year, but such employment may be extended for an additional six months with the approval of the Commission.
(v) A Chief Trial Examiner and an Assistant Trial Examiner.
(vi) Examiners employed on a temporary, part-time or intermittent basis for periods not to exceed four months in any calendar year.
(vii) One confidential assistant to each member of the Board.
(viii) A Director and two Assistant Directors of the Economic Bureau and a Director and Assistant Director of the Safety Bureau.
(35) National Labor Relations Board. (i) One private secretary or confidential assistant to each member of the Board.
(36) Government Printing Office. (i) One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Public Printer.
(37) Export-Import Bank of Washington. (i) Two private secretaries or confidential assistant to the Chairman of the Board of Directors and one to each member of the Board.
(ii) The President, three Vice-Presidents, the Treasurer, the Secretary.
(iii) Chiefs of the following Divisions: Legal, Economic, Examining, Engineering, and Private Capital.
(38) War Assts Administration. (i) Temporary field positions concerned with the inspection, inventory, pricing, sale, and shipping of surplus property at the site of the property.
(ii) Custodians, guards, watchmen, laborers, and other employees engaged in the custody, care and preservation of plants, warehouses, shipyards, airfields, and surplus facilities of a similar nature pending disposition of such facilities.
(39) National Housing Agency. Federal Home Loan Bank Administration. (i) One Deputy Commissioner.
(ii) One Executive Assistant and one Assistant to the Commissioner.
(iii) One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Commissioner.
(iv) One General Counsel and one Assistant to the General Counsel in charge of financial matters and matters of financial policy referred to the Legal Department.
(v) One Financial Adviser.
Federal Home Loan Bank System. (vi) The Governor and three Deputy Governors of the Federal Home Loan Bank System.
(vii) One assistant to the Governor.
(viii) One Associate General Counsel. 
Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation. (ix) One General Manager and two Deputy Managers.
(x) One Associate General Counsel.
(xi) All field positions concerned with the work of liquidating the assets of closed insurance institutions, or the liquidation of loans or the handling of contributions to insured institutions and the purchase of such assets therefrom, and all temporary field positions of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation the work of which is concerned with paying the depositors of closed insured institutions.
Home Owners' Loan Corporation. (xii) One General Manager and two Deputy General Managers.
(xiii) One Associate General Counsel.
Federal Housing Administration. (xiv) Five Assistant Commissioners, two special assistants to the Commissioner, and five Zone Commissioners.
(xv) An Executive Secretary of the Administration.
(xvi) Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Commissioner.
(xvii) One chauffeur to the Commissioner.
(xviii) A general Counsel.
(xix) One assistant to the Commissioner on public relations.
(xx) Sixty-five field directors (State, District, and Territorial).
Federal Public Housing Authority. (xxi) One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Commissioner.
Schedule B.
(b) Schedule B. The following positions are those excepted from the competitive service to which appointments may be made after such noncompetitive examination as the Commission shall prescribe, and constitute Schedule B of the Civil Service Rules:
(1) Interior Department. 9I) Any competitive position at an Indian school when filled by the wife of a competitive employee of the school, when because of isolation or lack of quarters, the Commission deems appointment through competitive examination impracticable.
(ii) Twelve field representatives to act as the immediate and confidential representatives of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, subject to such evidence of qualifications as the Commission may prescribe after consultation with the Commissioner of Indian Affairs.
(2) National Housing Agency. Federal Public Housing Authority. (i) Administrative or custodial positions in the field service of the Federal Public Housing Authority relating to the management or maintenance of Federal low-rent projects when, in the opinion of the Commission, appointment through competitive examination is impracticable: Provided, That no position shall be filled under this paragraph unless it is clearly demonstrated that the best interest of the service will be served thereby.
Federal Housing Administration. (ii) A Technical Director; a Land Planning Director; a Director of Research and Statistics.
(iii) A Comptroller.
(iv) Two land use planners.
(3) Department of Commerce. (i) Not to exceed six specialists who may be employed in the United States for the purpose of promoting the foreign and domestic commerce of the United States.
(4) War Department. (i) Positions of military storekeeper in the Signal Service at Large when filled by retired noncommissioned officers of the Signal Corps.
(ii) Any position outside the continental limits of the United States (except the Canal Zone and Alaska), when in the opinion of the Secretary of War the best interests of the service so require.
(iii) Positions assigned exclusively to Army Communications Intelligence activities.
(5) District of Columbia Government. (i) Surgeons of the Police and Fire Departments of the District of Columbia.
(6) Federal Trade Commission. (i) Not to exceed five special experts.
(7) State Department. (i) Specialists in foreign relations, political, economic, and financial, whose proposed compensation is fixed at entrance rate of grade P-3 or higher, and whose training and experience along the lines of their proposed duties meet the standard minimum qualifications set up in open competitive examinations for positions in the professional service for corresponding grades.
(ii) Persons formerly employed abroad as United States Diplomatic or consular officers of career or foreign-service officers of career for the period of at least four years, for service in the Department of State as administrative officers or executive advisors in positions comparable in salary with the associate professional grade or higher.
(iii) Positions of professional and technical specialists in the fields of health and sanitation, food supply, education and transportation, in grade P-5 or its equivalent, in the Institute of Inter-American Affairs and the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Incorporated, when filled by the appointment of persons who have served in such positions in the Federal service [sic] in foreign countries.
(8) Navy Department. (i) Positions assigned exclusively to Navy Communications Intelligence Activities.
(ii) Any position outside the continental limits of the United States (except the Canal Zone and Alaska), when in the opinion of the Secretary of the Navy the best interests of the service so require.
(9) Post Office Department. (i) One postal rate expert.
(10) Federal Power Commission. (i) A General Counsel or two Assistant General Counsels.
(ii) A Chief Examiner and a Chief Engineer.
(iii) Five regional engineers
(iv) A chief and an assistant chief of the following bureaus: Bureau of Accounts, Finance and Rates, Bureau of Power.
(11) Department of Agriculture. (i) Commodity Credit Corporation: Technical or professional consultants or advisers, at salaries equivalent to entrance rate of grade P-5 or higher, for periods not to exceed 18 months.
(ii) Farm Credit Administration: The Deputy Governor, Deputy Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners, the Director and Assistant Director of the Regional Agricultural Credit Division, and the Director of the Mortgage Corporation Service Section.
(iii) Farm Credit Administration: Special field representatives who serve as Vice Presidents of the Federal Farm Mortgage Corporation.
(12) National Capital Housing Authority. (i) Architectural or engineering consultants, construction supervisors, landscape planners, surveyors and related positions for temporary, intermittent or part-time service.
(13) Department of Justice. (i) National Training School for Boys: Assistant to cottage officers when filed by the appointment of bona fide students at colleges or universities at salaries not in excess of $720 per annum, subject to the approval of the Commission.
(ii) Special experts employed on a temporary basis for specific litigation or other legal work in which technical knowledge or particular industries, or knowledge of other highly technical matters not possessed by regular employees of the Department, is required for successful results. Such temporary employment shall be only for such time as is required to complete the specific assignment for which the original appointment was approved.
PART III
The following Executive orders are hereby revoked:
No. 279 of November 29, 1904.
No. 283 of December 8, 1904.
No. 294 of February 15, 1905.
No. 314 of March 30, 1905.
Nov. 458 of June 13, 1906.
No. 715 of November 22, 1907.
No. 983 of November 30, 1908
No. 1065 of April 21, 1909.
No. 1153 of January 12, 1910.
No. 2357 of April 11, 1916.
No. 3108 of June 30, 1919.
Unnumbered order of June 2, 1920, concerning reinstatement of persons nearing retirement age.
No. 4523 of October 18, 1926.
No. 5924 of September 20, 1932.
Unnumbered order of February 19, 1934, concerning negotiations for transfer.
No. 7915 of June 24, 1938
No. 7916 of June 24, 1938.
No. 7975 -A of September 16, 1938.
No. 8083 of June 10, 1939.
No. 8179 of June 21, 1939.
No. 8257 of September 21, 1939
No. 8283 of November 9, 1939.
No. 8300 of December 21, 1939.
No. 8423 of May 28, 1940.
No. 8425 of May 29, 1940.
No. 8467 of July 1, 1940.
No. 8564 of October 8, 1940.
No. 8587 of November 7, 1940.
No. 8705 of March 5, 1941.
No. 8707 of March 10, 1941.
No. 8760 of May 27, 1941.
No. 8894 of September 8, 1941.
No. 8937 of November 7, 1941.
No. 9004 of December 30, 1941.
No. 9027 of January 16, 1942.
No. 9052 of February 6, 1942.
No. 9200 of July 16, 1942.
No. 9239 of September 8, 1942.
No. 9298 of February 2, 1943.
No. 9333 of April 19, 1943.
No. 9394of November 4, 1943.
No. 9405 of December 17, 1943.
No. 9503 of November 27, 1944.
No. 9538 of April 13, 1945.
No. 9579 of June 30, 1945.
No. 9598 of August 17, 1945.
No. 9619 of September 19, 1945.
No. 9644 of October 19, 1945.
No. 9653 of November 1, 1945
No. 9668 of December 28, 1945.
No. 9688 of January 31, 1946.
No. 9691 of February 4, 1946.
No. 9733 of June 4, 1946.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
February 24, 1947