WHEREAS the Urgent Deficiency Appropriation Act, 1947, approved March 22, 1947, provides that the Civilian Production Administration in the Office of Temporary Controls shall be entirely liquidated not later than June 30, 1947; and
WHEREAS the Civilian Production Administration is now exercising and performing certain functions, duties, and powers with respect to the Veterans' Emergency Housing Program; and
WHEREAS IT ISNECESSARY THAT THE Veterans' Emergency Housing Program continue without impairment
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statues, including Title I of the First War Powers Act, 1941 (55 Stat. 838), and Title III of the Second War Powers Act, 1942, as amended (56 Stat. 177, 58 Stat. 827, 59 Stat. 658, Public Law 475 approved June 29, 1946), and as President of the United States, it is hereby order, in the interest of the internal management of the Government and to provide continuity for the Veterans' Emergency Housing Program, as follows:
1. All functions, duties and powers of the Temporary Controls Administrator and the Office of Temporary Controls with respect to the Veterans' Emergency Housing Program which have heretofore been administered by the Civilian Production Administration in the Office of Temporary Controls are hereby transferred to the Housing Expediter.
2. To the extent necessary for the proper exercise of the function, duties and powers transferred to him by paragraph 1 of this order, the Housing Expediter may exercise the powers and authority vested in the President by said Title III of the Second War Powers Act, 1942, as amended.
3. The functions, duties, powers, and authority vested in the Housing Expediter by this order shall be exercised and performed by him or, subject to his discretion and control, by such personnel of the Office of Housing Expediter as the Housing Expediter may designate.
4. So much of the personnel of the Office of Temporary Controls engaged primarily in the administration of the said functions, duties, and powers, and so much of the property and records of such office used in such administration, as the Temporary Controls Administrator and the Housing Expediter shall jointly determine to be in the public interest and consistent with the pertinent legislation shall be transferred to the Office of Housing Expediter for use in connection with such functions, duties and powers.
5. There may be transferred or otherwise made available to the Office of Housing Expediter, for use in connection with the functions, duties, and powers vested in the Housing Expediter by this order, any funds available to the Office of Temporary Controls which the Director of the Bureau of the Budget shall determine (a) to relate primarily to such functions, duties, and powers, (b) to be not needed for the liquidation of the Civilian Production Administration, and (c) to be properly transferable under pertinent legislation.
6. Such further measures and dispositions as may be determined by the Director of the Bureau of the Budget to be necessary to effectuate the purposes and provisions of this order shall be carried out in such manner as the Directory may direct and by such agencies as he may designate.
7. All prior Executive orders, proclamations, or parts thereof in conflict with this order are amended accordingly. All other prior orders, rules, regulations, directives, and other similar instruments issued prior to the effective date of this order by any Federal agency and relating to any functions, duties, powers, or authority vested in the Housing Expediter by this order shall remain in effect except as they are inconsistent herewith or are hereafter amended or revoked under property authority.
8. This order shall become effective on April 1, 1947.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
March 22, 1947