By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 10 of the act of June 16, 1942 (56 Stat. 363), as amended (37 U. S. C. Sup. 110), and in the interest of the internal management of the Government, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section II of Executive Order 9386, dated October 15, 1943, prescribing allowances for quarters and subsistence to enlisted men not furnished quarters or rations in kind, is hereby amended, effective as of February 15, 1945, to read as follows:
Section II
Men traveling on duty including detentions not exceeding thirty-one days at any one place, when not furnished sleeping car, stateroom accommodations, or other quarters, and rations in kind shall be granted a daily allowance of $5.00: Provided, that when quarters in kind are furnished, they shall be entitled only to an allowance for subsistence at the rate of $1.00 per meal, and when subsistence is furnished they shall be entitled only to an allowance for quarters at the rate of $2.00 per day; except that, when travel is performed by rail or water, the allowance for subsistence shall be $1.24 for each meal required to be taken in a dining car on a train or in a dining room on a steamer, and if quarters are not provided for the day of such travel, the allowance for quarters $1.75 when an allowance for subsistence is so furnished for one meal, $1.50 when an allowance for subsistence is so furnished for two meals, or $1.25 when allowance for subsistence is so furnished for three meals. For the purposes of this section, quarters in kind will be considered as furnished for the day of arrival at a permanent station.
Men absent under orders from their station upon duty which involves travel and also temporary detentions during the journey shall be deemed to be traveling under orders during the entire period of sub absence including the day of departure therefrom and return thereto. For periods of detention in excess of thirty one days at any one place, the allowances prescribed in Section I shall govern after the thirty-first day.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
January 30, 1947