By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and Statutes, including the Defense Production Act of 1950, and as President of the United States and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. There is hereby established the National Advisory Board on Mobilization Policy, hereinafter referred to as the Board, which shall be composed of the Director of Defense Mobilization, as Chairman, and sixteen other members of outstanding experience and ability who shall be appointed by the President. All of the members of the Board shall represent the general public and the public interest, but in order that the Board may have the benefit of experience in pertinent matters, four members of the Board shall have had experience in business management, four members shall have had experience in matters relating to labor, and four members shall have had experience in agriculture. 
SEC. 2. It shall be the function of the Board to advise the President from time to time with respect to the current defense mobilization program or any phase thereof. The Board shall meet with the President at his request and shall meet at such other times as may be determined by its Chairman. The Board shall make recommendations and reports to the President upon his request and at such other times as the Board deems appropriate.
SEC. 3. The members of the Board shall serve without compensation, and exemption is hereby granted, with respect to their service under this Executive order, from the operation of sections 281, 283, 284, 434, and 1914 of Title 18 of the United States Code and Section 190 of the Revised Statutes.
SEC. 4. Members of the Board may be allowed transportation expenses in accordance with the standardized government travel regulations, as amended, and a per diem allowance of $15.00 in lieu of subsistence, while away from their respective homes or regular places of business on the business of the Board. Funds available for carrying out the Defense Production Act of 1950 and allotted for use under this order shall be utilized for the purposes of this Section 4 and for any other necessary expenditures of the Board.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
March 15, 1951