By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 2 of the Civil Service Act (22 Stat. 403) and section 1753 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (5 U.S.C. 631), it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Notwithstanding the provisions of section 1(a) of Executive Order No. 10180 of November 13, 1950, and to the extent authorized by law, appointments to positions in the field service of the Post Office Department for which salary rates are fixed by the act of July 6, 1945, 59 Stat. 435, as amended and supplemented, shall be made on a permanent basis.
SEC. 2. (a) Under such conditions as the Civil Service Commission may prescribe, and to the extent permitted by law, employees serving under indefinite appointments in the field service of the Post Office Department whose salary rates are fixed by the said act of July 6, 1945, as amended and supplemented (hereinafter referred to as employees), and who were appointed by selection in regular order from competitive civil-service registers established subsequent to February 4, 1946, or who normally would have been appointed by selection in regular order from such registers, shall have their appointments converted to probational or permanent appointments as of the effective date of this order: Provided, that such employees have served continuously (or without a break in service of more than ninety days) since they were appointed: Provided further, that the number of employees whose appointments may be converted under this section shall not exceed the number of vacancies in the authorized complement of permanent positions (consisting of regular positions and positions within the authorized quota of substitutes) existing on the effective date of this order: And provided further, that employees shall be selected for conversion of their appointments in the order in which they were or would have been within reach for appointment from such registers. Employees in excess of the number required to fill vacancies in the authorized complement of permanent positions shall have their names entered on appropriate competitive registers and thereafter shall be eligible for probational appointment in accordance with civil-service regulations.
(b) Employees who left positions in the field service of the Post Office Department to enter the armed forces of the United States and are reemployed therein after the effective date of this order pursuant to application for reemployment made within ninety days after honorable discharge, or after hospitalization continuing after discharge for not more than one year, shall have their former indefinite appointments converted to probational or permanent appointments in accordance with this section.
SEC. 3. This order shall become effective thirty days after the date hereof.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
July 18, 1952