WHEREAS it is in the interest of the Nation's economy and security to promote the fullest utilization of all available manpower; and
WHEREAS it is the policy of the United States Government to promote equal employment opportunity for all qualified persons employed or seeking employment on government contracts because such persons are entitled to fair and equitable treatment in all aspects of employment on work paid for from public funds; and
WHEREAS it is the obligation of the contracting agencies of the United States Government and government contractors to insure compliance with, and successful execution of, the equal employment opportunity program of the United States Government; and
WHEREAS existing executive orders require the government contracting agencies to include in their contracts a provision obligating the government contractor not to discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, creed, color, or national origin and obligating the government contractor to include a similar provision in all subcontracts; and
WHEREAS a review and analysis of existing practices and procedures of government contracting agencies show that the practices and procedures relating to compliance with the nondiscrimination provisions must be revised and strengthened to eliminate discrimination in all aspects of employment:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes, and as President of the United States, and pursuant to the authority conferred by and subject to the provisions of section 214 of the act of May 3, 1945. 59 Stat. 134, (31 U.S.C. 691), it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. The head of each contracting agency of the Government of the United States shall be primarily responsible for obtaining compliance by any contractor or subcontractor with the said nondiscrimination provisions of any contract entered into, amended, or modified by his agency and of any subcontract thereunder, and shall take appropriate measures to bring about the said compliance.
SEC. 2. The head of each contracting agency shall take appropriate measures, including but not limited to the establishment of compliance procedures, to carry out the responsibility set forth in section 1 hereof.
SEC. 3. There is hereby established the Government Contract Committee, hereinafter referred to as the Committee. The Committee shall be composed of fourteen members as follows:
(a) One representative of the following-named agencies to be designated by the respective heads of such agencies: the Atomic Energy Commission, the Department of Commerce, the Department of Defense, the Department of Justice, the Department of Labor, and the General Services Administration.
(b) Eight other members to be appointed by the President. The Chairman and Vice Chairman shall be designated by the President.
SEC. 4. The Committee shall make recommendations to the contracting agencies for improving and making more effective the nondiscrimination provisions of government contracts. All contracting agencies of the Government are directed and authorized to cooperate with the Committee and, to the extent permitted by law, to furnish the Committee such information and assistance as it may require in the performance of its functions under this order. The Committee shall establish such rules as may be necessary for the performance of its functions under this order, and shall make annual or semiannual reports on its progress to the President.
SEC 5. The Committee may receive complaints of alleged violations of the nondiscrimination provisions of government contracts. Complaints received shall be transmitted by the Committee to the appropriate contracting agencies to be processed in accordance with the agencies' procedure for handling such complaints. Each contracting agency shall report to the Committee the action taken with respect to all complaints received by the agency, including those transmitted by the Committee. The Committee shall review and analyze the reports submitted to it by the contracting agencies.
SEC 6. The Committee shall encourage the furtherance of an educational program by employer, labor, civic, educational, religious, and other voluntary non-governmental groups in order to eliminate or reduce the basic causes and costs of discrimination in employment.
SEC. 7. The Committee is authorized to establish and maintain cooperative relationships with agencies of state and local governments, as well as with non-governmental bodies, to assist in achieving the purposes of this order.
SEC. 8. The government agencies (except the Department of Justice) designated in section 3 (a) of this order shall defray such necessary expenses of the Committee as may be authorized by law, Including section 214 of the act of May 3, 1945, 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691); provided that no agency shall supply more than 50% of the funds necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Department of Labor shall provide necessary space and facilities for the Committee. In the case of the Department of Justice the contribution shall be limited to the rendering of legal services.
SEC. 9. Executive Order No. 10308 of December 5, 1951 (16 P. R. 12303) is hereby revoked and the Committee on Government Contract Compliance established thereby is abolished All records and property of the said Committee are transferred to the Government Contract Committee. The latter Committee shall wind up any outstanding affairs of the abolished Committee.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
August 13, 1953.