By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Mutual Security Act of 1954, including particularly sections 521 and 525 thereof (68 Stat. 855, 856), and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
PART I. DEPARTMENT OF STATE; INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION ADMINISTRATION
SECTION 101. Exclusive of the functions transferred by the provisions of section 201 of this order, all functions conferred by law upon, or delegated or otherwise assigned by the President to, the Director of the Foreign Operations Administration, and all functions conferred by law upon, or otherwise placed under the jurisdiction of, the Foreign Operations Administration (including, subject to the provisions of sections 102 (b) and (c) of this order, all functions of agencies, officials, and employees of the Foreign Operations Administration), are hereby transferred to the Secretary of State and the Department of State, respectively.
SEC. 102. The following are hereby transferred to the Department of State:
(a) All offices of the Foreign Operations Administration, exclusive of the office of Director of the Foreign Operations Administration.
(b) The Institute of Inter-American Affairs and the functions vested in it by law, which functions shall remain therewith.
(c) The International Development Advisory Board (68 Stat. 842) and the functions vested in it by law, which functions shall remain therewith.
(d) The Office of Small Business, provided for in section 504 (b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954 (68 Stat. 851), and in section 101 (d) of Executive Order No. 10575 of November 6, 1954 (19 F. R. 7251).
SEC. 103. (a) The Secretary of State shall establish, with the offices, personnel, and facilities transferred to the Department of State by or under section 102 (a) and 302 of this order, an agency in the Department of State which shall be known as the International Cooperation Administration. The agencies transferred by sections 102 (b), (c), and (d) of this order shall be made a part of or attached to the International Cooperation Administration. The International Cooperation Administration shall be headed by the Director of the International Cooperation Administration referred to in the first sentence of section 103 (b) of this order. The said Director shall report directly to the Secretary of State. Except as may be otherwise provided by the Secretary of State in respect of the matters referred to in section 104 of this order, the functions transferred by section 101 hereof shall be carried out by or under the International Cooperation Administration or the Director thereof. The said Administration, including all its officers and agencies, and all functions transferred by this Part shall be subject to the direction and control of the Secretary of State. To such extent as the Secretary of State shall prescribe, consistent with law and without diminishing assignments made or required to be made by this order to the International Cooperation Administration or the Director thereof, the said Administration and Director shall be deemed to be the successors of the Foreign Operations Administration and the Director thereof, respectively, in respect of transfers to the Department of State and the Secretary of State made by this order.
(b) The title of Deputy Director of the Foreign Operations Administration is hereby changed to Director of the International Cooperation Administration. The Director of the International Cooperation Administration may, as he deems proper, change the title of and utilize in connection with the functions transferred by this order any other office of the Foreign Operations Administration transferred hereby.
SEC. 104. (a) The Secretary of State, after consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall make appropriate arrangements for carrying out the function of coordination referred to in section 102 (c) (1) of Executive Order No. 10575 of November 6, 1954.
(b) The Secretary of State or, if he shall so direct, the Director of the International Cooperation Administration shall (1) carry out the functions under the Mutual Defense Assistance Control Act of 1951 transferred by section 101 of this order, (2) carry out the functions under section 501 (a) (2) of the Mutual Security Act of 1951 (as continued by section 525 of the Mutual Security Act of 1954), (3) make the determinations authorized by the last sentence of section 524 (b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, and (4) coordinate the functions of the International Cooperation Administration and other affairs of the Department of State.
PART II. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
SEC. 201. So much of the functions under chapter 2 of Title I of the Mutual Security Act of 1954 now vested in or delegated to or otherwise conferred upon the Director of the Foreign Operations Administration or the Foreign Operations Administration as consists of furnishing to recipients eligible under that chapter, equipment, materials, or services which are delivered or rendered directly to the military forces of the recipient country or its agent (including a civilian contractor with such force) for the exclusive use, or to be under the exclusive control, of such military forces and without entering into or being processed by the civilian economy of the recipient country except as above provided is hereby transferred to the Secretary of Defense and the Department of Defense, respectively.
SEC. 202. The determination of the value of the program for any country under so much of chapter 2 of Title I of the Mutual Security Act of 1954 as pertains to the functions transferred by section 201 of this order shall be made by the Secretary of State.
PART III. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 301. As used in this order, the term functions includes powers, duties, authority, responsibilities, and discretion.
SEC. 302. So much of the records, property, personnel, positions, and unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, and other funds of the Foreign Operations Administration as the Director of the Bureau of the Budget shall determine shall be transferred to the Department of Defense. There are hereby transferred to the Department of State all other records, property, personnel, positions, and unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, and other funds of the Foreign Operations Administration (including those of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, the International Development Advisory Board, and the Office of Small Business, which shall be transferred with those agencies, respectively). Such further measures and dispositions as the Director of the Bureau of the Budget may deem necessary in order to effectuate the transfers provided for in this section shall be carried out in such manner as he shall direct and by such agencies as he shall designate.
SEC. 303. (a) The Foreign Operations Administration, including the office of Director of the Foreign Operations Administration but excluding all other offices of, and all agencies and positions of, the Foreign Operations Administration, and excluding also all functions transferred by the provisions of this order, is hereby abolished.
(b) The memberships of the Director of the Foreign Operations Administration on the following bodies, together with the functions of the said Director in his capacity as member of each thereof, are hereby abolished: (1) The National Security Council, (2) the Operations Coordinating Board, (3) the Council on Foreign Economic Policy, (4) the Interagency Committee on Agricultural Surplus Disposal, (5) the Defense Mobilization Board, and (6) the Interdepartmental Committee on Trade Agreements: Provided, That the Director of the International Cooperation Administration or his designated representative shall participate in the deliberations, and assist in connection with the affairs, of the bodies mentioned in items (2) to (6), inclusive, above, and of the Committee for Reciprocity Information.
SEC. 304. Nothing in this order shall be construed to derogate from the authority of the President, after the date of approval of this order, (1) to delegate functions conferred upon him by the Mutual Security Act of 1954 or by other law other than as transferred or otherwise assigned by this order, (2) to transfer to any agency or officer of the United States, or to modify or abolish, any function, office, or entity of the Foreign Operations Administration or the successor thereof or any officer or employee thereof, or (3) to transfer such personnel, property, records, and funds as may be necessary incident thereto.
SEC. 305. Except to the extent inconsistent with this order, all determinations, authorizations, regulations, rulings, certificates, orders, directives, contracts, agreements, and other actions issued, undertaken, or entered into with respect to any function affected by this order and not heretofore revoked, superseded, or otherwise made inapplicable, shall continue in full force and effect until amended, modified, or terminated by appropriate authority; but any reference therein to any officer or agency abolished by this order shall hereafter be deemed to be a reference to the appropriate successor officer or agency under this order.
SEC. 306. This order shall become effective at the close of June 30, 1955.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 9, 1955.