By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. (a) There is hereby established the Federal Radiation Council (hereinafter referred to as the "Council").
(b) The Council shall be composed of the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, and the Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission.
(c) The Chairman of the Council shall be designated by the President, from time to time, from among the members of the Council.
SEC. 2. The Council shall advise the President with respect to radiation matters directly or indirectly affecting health, including matters pertinent to the general guidance of executive agencies by the President with respect to the development by such agencies of criteria for the protection of humans against ionizing radiation applicable to the affairs of the respective agencies. The Council shall take steps designed to further the interagency coordination of measures for protecting humans against ionizing radiation.
SEC. 3. The Special Assistant to the President for Science and Technology, or his representative, is authorized to attend meetings of, to participate in the deliberations of, and to advise with, the Council.
SEC. 4. For the purpose of effectuating this order, each executive agency represented on the Council shall furnish necessary assistance to the Council, in consonance with section 214 of the act of May 3, 1945, 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691). Such assistance may include detailing employees to the Council to perform such duties consistent with the purposes of this order as the Chairman of the Council may assign to them. Upon the request of the Chairman of the Council, the heads of executive agencies shall so far as practicable provide the Council information and reports relating to matters within the cognizance of the Council.
SEC. 5. The Council may seek technical advice, in respect of its functions, from any source it deems appropriate.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
August 14, 1959.