By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 5(b) of the act of October 6, 1917, as amended, 12 U.S.C. ยง 95a, and in view of the continued existence of the national emergency proclaimed by Proclamation No. 2914 of December 16, 1950, I, DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER, President of the United States of America, do hereby further amend Executive Order No. 6260, as amended, as follows:
1. By amending section 2 to read as follows:
"2. As used in this order, the term `person' means an individual, partnership, association or corporation; the term 'United States' means the United States and any place subject to the jurisdiction thereof; and the term 'person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States' means: (a) any individual who is a citizen of the United States; (b) any individual, wherever located, who is a resident of, or domiciled in, the United States; (c) any partnership, association, corporation or other organization which is organized or doing business under the laws of the United States or of any state or territory thereof or the District of Columbia; and (d) any partnership, association, corporation or other organization wherever organized or doing business which is owned or controlled by persons specified in (a), (b), or (c)."
2. By adding at the end thereof a new section 12 reading as follows:
"12. Except under license issued therefor pursuant to the provisions of this order, no person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States shall, after the effective date of this section, acquire, hold in his possession, earmark, or retain any interest, legal or equitable, in any gold coin (other than gold coin having a recognized special value to collectors of rare and unusual coin), gold certificates, or gold bullion situated outside of the United States, or any securities issued by any person holding, as a substantial part of his assets, gold as a store of value or as, or in lieu of, money and not for a specific and customary industrial, professional or artistic use. The Secretary of the Treasury, subject to such other regulations as he may prescribe, is authorized to issue licenses permitting, until June 1, 1961, the holding and disposition of any such securities or gold coin, certificates or bullion acquired by persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States prior to the effective date of this section and owned by such persons on such date. The Secretary is further authorized to issue licenses permitting the acquisition and holding by persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States of gold bullion situated outside of the United States which the Secretary or such agency as he may designate is satisfied is required for legitimate and customary use in the industry, profession or art in which such person is regularly engaged."
This amendment shall become effective upon filing for publication with the Office of the Federal Register.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
January 14, 1961.