WHEREAS the level of employment throughout the United States, the strength of our national economy, and our capacity to carry out our international responsibilities can be substantially increased by the establishment of many new and increased foreign markets for a variety of American industrial and farm products; and 
WHEREAS it is in the national interest to promote and expand the export trade of the United States; and 
WHEREAS there has been established an Export Expansion Program designed to assist American private enterprise, both large and small, to expand greatly the nature and volume of exports; and 
WHEREAS it is appropriate to award suitable public recognition to persons, firms, and organizations making significant contributions to the increase of American exports: 
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the United States, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. An award program for significant contributions to the Export Expansion Program is hereby established. 
SEC. 2. The Secretary of Commerce, in cooperation with the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Administrator of the Small Business Administration, and the heads of other Government departments and agencies, shall establish procedures for the nomination of persons, firms, and organizations for awards and the granting of awards, and for such other matters as may be incidental thereto. 
SEC. 3. There shall be two types of awards, as follows: 
(a) The President's "E" Award; and (b) The President's "E" Certificate of Service. 
SEC. 4. The President's "E" Award may be made to persons, firms, and organizations engaged in the marketing of products who make significant contributions to the expansion of the export trade of the United States. It shall consist of a flag having a field of white upon which will appear a blue "E". It shall be further evidenced by an "E" Award Certificate, which shall cite the recipient's contribution, and shall be appropriately executed in the name and by the authority of the President. 
SEC. 5. A special "E" Certificate of Service may be awarded to persons, firms, and organizations who make contributions to export expansion, but who are engaged in activities other than the marketing of products. The special "E" Certificate of Service shall cite the recipient's contribution, and shall be appropriately executed in the name and by the authority of the President. 
SEC. 6. A recipient of either type of award may be authorized to issue to his employees a suitably designed pin inscribed with the President's "E", to display a designated style of award emblem in his advertising, and to make other appropriate use of the emblem. 
JOHN F. KENNEDY
THE WHITE HOUSE,
December 5, 1961