WHEREAS prejudices and outmoded customs act as barriers to the full realization of women's basic rights which should be respected and fostered as part of our Nation's commitment to human dignity, freedom, and democracy; and 
WHEREAS measures that contribute to family security and strengthen home life will advance the general welfare; and 
WHEREAS it is in the national interest to promote the economy, security, and national defense through the most efficient and effective utilization of the skills of all persons, and 
WHEREAS in every period of national emergency women have served with distinction in widely varied capacities but thereafter have been subject to treatment as a marginal group whose skills have been inadequately utilized; and 
WHEREAS women should be assured the opportunity to develop their capacities and fulfill their aspirations on a continuing basis irrespective of national exigencies, and 
WHEREAS a Governmental Commission should be charged with the responsibility for developing recommendations for overcoming discriminations in government and private employment on the basis of sex and for developing recommendations for services which will enable women to continue their role as wives and mothers while making a maximum contribution to the world around them: 
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States by the Constitution and statutes of the United States, it is ordered as follows: 
PART I—
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION ON THE STATUS OF WOMEN 
SEC. 101. There is hereby established the President's Commission on the Status of Women, referred to herein as the "Commission". The Commission shall terminate not later than October 1, 1963. 
SEC. 102. The Commission shall be composed of twenty members appointed by the President from among persons with a competency in the area of public affairs and women's activities. In addition, the Secretary of Labor, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Health, Education and-Welfare, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Agriculture and the Chairman of the Civil Service Commission shall also serve as members of the Commission. The President shall designate from among the membership a Chairman, a Vice-Chairman, and an Executive Vice-Chairman. 
SEC. 103. In conformity with the Act of May 3, 1945 (59 Stat. 134, 31 U.S.C. 691), necessary facilitating assistance, including the provision of suitable office space by the Department of Labor, shall be furnished the Commission by the Federal agencies whose chief officials are members thereof. An Executive Secretary shall be detailed by the Secretary of Labor to serve the Commission. 
SEC. 104. The Commission shall meet at the call of the Chairman. 
SEC. 105. The Commission is authorized to use the services of consultants and experts as may be found necessary and as may be otherwise authorized by law. 
PART II—
DUTIES OF THE PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION ON THE STATUS OF WOMEN 
SEC. 201. The Commission shall review progress and make recommendations as needed for constructive action in the following areas: 
(a) Employment policies and practices, including those on wages, under Federal contracts. 
(b) Federal social insurance and tax laws as they affect the net earnings and other income of women. 
(c) Federal and State labor laws dealing with such matters as hours, night work, and wages, to determine whether they are accomplishing the purposes for which they were established and whether they should be adapted to changing technological, economic, and social conditions. 
(d) Differences in legal treatment of men and women in regard to political and civil rights, property rights, and family relations. 
(e) New and expanded services that may be required for women as wives, mothers, and workers, including education, counseling, training, home services, and arrangements for care of children during the working day. 
(f) The employment policies and practices of the Government of the United States, with reference to additional affirmative steps which should be taken through legislation, executive or administrative action to assure nondiscrimination on the basis of sex and to enhance constructive employment opportunities for women. 
SEC. 202. The Commission shall submit a final report of its recommendations to the President by October 1, 1963. 
SEC. 203. All executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government are directed to cooperate with the Commission in the performance of its duties. 
PART III—
REMUNERATION AND EXPENSES 
SEC. 301. Members of the Commission, except those receiving other compensation from the United States, shall receive such compensation as the President shall hereafter fix in a manner to be hereafter determined. 
JOHN F. KENNEDY
THE WHITE HOUSE,
December 14, 1961