By virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 204 of the Agricultural Act of 1956, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1854; P.L. 87-488, 76 Stat. 104), and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. The President's Cabinet Textile Advisory Committee, consisting of the Secretaries of State, the Treasury, Agriculture, Commerce, and Labor with the Secretary of Commerce as Chairman, shall exercise supervision over the administration of the Long Term Arrangement Regarding Trade in Cotton Textiles done at Geneva on February 9, 1962, and shall advise generally with respect to problems relating to textiles. 
SEC. 2. (a) The President's Cabinet Textile Advisory Committee shall establish a subcommittee to be known as the Interagency Textile Administrative Committee as a successor to the Interagency Textile Administrative Committee established October 18, 1961. It shall be located, for administrative purposes, at the Department of Commerce, and shall be under the Chairmanship of a designee of the Secretary of Commerce. This Committee shall be composed of the Chairman and one representative each from the Departments of State, Treasury, Agriculture, and Labor. 
(b) The Interagency Textile Administrative Committee shall recommend actions to be taken by appropriate officials and agencies of the United States Government with regard to the rights and obligations of the United States under the Long Term Arrangement and with regard to such other matters relating to textiles as may be referred to it by the President's Cabinet Textile Advisory Committee. In the event of disagreement within the Interagency Textile Administrative Committee with respect to a proposed recommendation, it shall be reviewed and determined by the President's Cabinet Textile Advisory Committee. 
SEC. 3. The Secretary of State, after consultation with the President's Cabinet Textile Advisory Committee in respect of relevant policies, shall undertake the negotiations contemplated by the Long Term Arrangement, including bilateral textile agreements. The Secretary of State shall designate an official of the Department of State to be Chairman of the United States delegation to the Cotton Textiles Committee established by the Contracting Parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, and shall request the Secretaries of Commerce and Labor each to appoint a representative of his Department to serve on the delegation. 
SEC. 4. The Commissioner of Customs shall take such actions as the Chairman of the President's Cabinet Textile Advisory Committee may, upon either the unanimous recommendation of the Interagency Textile Administrative Committee, or the recommendation of the President's Cabinet Textile Advisory Committee, direct to carry out the Long Term Arrangement with respect to entry, or withdrawal from warehouse for consumption in the United States, of cotton textiles and cotton textile products. 
SEC. 5. This order shall be effective October 1, 1962, at 12:01 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time. 
JOHN F. KENNEDY
THE WHITE HOUSE,
September 28, 1962