WHEREAS foreign trade is an essential and continuing element in the economic strength of the United States, and expansion of exports by and through private enterprise is of increasing importance and necessity to the economic welfare of this nation; and
WHEREAS there is a need for a continuing and systematic coordination of Government programs and policies designed to promote and expand United States exports:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
Section 1. 
Interagency Committee on Export Expansion,
 (a) There is hereby established the Interagency Committee on Export Expansion (hereinafter referred to as the "Committee"), to serve in an advisory capacity to the Secretary of Commerce with respect to export expansion policies and programs, which shall consist of the following members: The Secretary of Commerce, who shall be Chairman; the Secretary of the Treasury; the Secretary of Agriculture; the Secretary of State; the Secretary of Defense; the President of the Export-Import Bank of Washington; the Administrator of the Small Business Administration; and the Administrator of the Agency for International Development. The Chairman shall from time to time invite other heads of Federal agencies to participate in Committee meetings when matters affecting their interests are to be considered by the Committee.
(b) Each member of the Committee shall designate an officer to sit on the Committee as an alternate member whenever the designating member is absent or otherwise unable to participate in a meeting of the Committee. Alternate members from executive departments shall be of rank not less than that of Assistant Secretary and other alternate members shall be of rank as nearly comparable to that of an Assistant Secretary as may be practicable.
Sec. 2. 
The Secretary of Commerce.
 The Secretary of Commerce shall be responsible for developing methods for improving coordination among Federal agencies in the development and carrying out of export promotion programs.
Sec. 3. 
Functions of the Committee.
 The Committee shall advise the Secretary of Commerce with regard to (1) means for developing and stimulating more effective export expansion programs; (2) changes in existing policies and programs of the Federal agencies which relate to improving export promotion and expansion; and (3) related areas upon which the Chairman may request advice.
Sec. 4. 
Consultation.
 In the performance of its functions hereunder the Committee, as may be appropriate, shall seek the advice and support of the National Export Expansion Council and shall consult and closely coordinate with the Cabinet Committee on Balance of Payments.
Sec. 5. 
Administrative arrangements,
 (a) As may be necessary for effectuating the purposes of this order, the Federal agencies represented on the Committee under the provisions of Section 1 hereof shall furnish assistance to the Committee in consonance with Section 214 of the Act of May 3, 1945 (59 Stat. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691). Such assistance may include the detailing of employees to the Committee to perform such functions consistent with the purposes of this order as the Committee may assign to them and may also include the assignment by the Secretary of Commerce of an official in the Department of Commerce to serve as the executive director of the Committee.
(b) With respect to functions of the Committee under this order and insofar as practicable, Federal agencies shall upon request of the Committee furnish it information, data, and reports and shall otherwise cooperate with the Committee.
Sec. 6. 
Construction,
 (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to abrogate, modify, or restrict any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal agency or any officer thereof, or any Federal interagency council or committee.
(b) As used herein the term "Federal agencies" includes executive departments and other executive agencies.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House,
December 12, 1963.