By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States it is ordered as follows:
Section 1. Committee established. (a) There is hereby established a Maritime Advisory Committee (hereinafter referred to as the Committee). The Committee shall be composed of:
(1) An equal number of representatives of the public at large, labor, and management, respectively, who shall be designated by the President and shall serve at his pleasure.
(2) The Secretary of Commerce, who shall serve as chairman of the Committee.
(3) The Secretary of Labor.
(b) The Secretary of State, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of the Navy, the Administrator of the Maritime Administration, and the Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service or their designee shall be present at all meetings of the Committee.
Sec. 2. Functions of the Committee. The Committee shall consider such matters of policy and administration of government programs affecting the Maritime industry as it deems to be in the public interest, including policies and practices which may be followed by labor, management, or the Government for strengthening the trade, national defense, manpower, and labor relations programs of the Maritime industry. The Committee shall also be the forum within which the recommendations of the representatives of public, labor and management members with respect to these matters shall be presented to and discussed with the Secretaries of Labor and Commerce and such other Federal officials designated in Section 1 as may be appropriate.
Sec. 3. Procedure; agency cooperation. Subject to law, the Committee may use available appropriate studies and resources of Federal departments, agencies, committees, and commissions. All such departments, agencies, committees, and commissions shall cooperate with the Committee by furnishing information which it requests insofar as is reasonable and not inconsistent with law.
Sec. 4. Expenditures. (a) As may be necessary for the effectuation of the purposes of this order, each agency the head of which is a member of the Committee under the provisions of Section 1(a) hereof shall furnish assistance to the Committee as permitted by law, including Section 214 of the Act of May 3,1945,69 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691).
(b) Members of the Committee shall receive no compensation from the United States by virtue of this order except that those members under Section 1(a) (1) who are representatives of the public at large shall each receive compensation of $75 for each day such member is engaged in meetings of the Committee or is with the approval of the Chairman of the Committee engaged in other work in pursuance of this order. Members of the Committee under Section 1(a)(1) hereof may be allowed travel expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 73b-2) for persons serving without compensation.
Sec. 5. Construction. All functions of the Committee under the foregoing provisions of this order shall be deemed to be advisory only; accordingly, no Federal function, agency, or officer (including any Federal officer who under this order is a member of or may participate in the affairs of the Committee) shall be subject to control by the Committee or by any action taken by the Committee.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House,
June 17, 1964.