WHEREAS it is in the national interest that our future leaders in all walks of life have opportunities to observe at firsthand the important and challenging tasks of American Government; and
WHEREAS participation in Government service early in their careers will help young persons with high qualifications to become well-informed and public-spirited citizens; and
WHEREAS it is appropriate that public recognition be given to young persons of exceptional promise who are willing to devote their time to increasing their understanding of the public business:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
Section 1. 
Establishment of Commission.
 (a) There is hereby established the President's Commission on White House Fellowships, hereinafter referred to as the Commission. The Commission shall consist of such outstanding citizens from the fields of public affairs, education, the sciences, the professions, other fields of private endeavor, and the Government service, as the President may from time to time appoint. One of the members appointed from private life shall be designated by the President to serve as Chairman of the Commission.
(b) Members of the Commission shall serve at the pleasure of the President. Federal officials shall receive no additional compensation by reason of their service on the Commission. Members appointed to the Commission from private life shall serve without compensation.
Sec. 2. 
Functions of the Commission.
 (a) The Commission shall prescribe such standards and procedures as may be necessary to enable it to recommend annually a group of outstanding young persons from among whom the President may select White House Fellows. Following publication of such standards and procedures, the Commission may accept (1) applications from individuals, and (2) nominations from non-Federal sources, for consideration for its recommendation.
(b) The standards and procedures to be prescribed by the Commission shall be so drawn as to limit the selection of White House Fellows to persons who—
(1) Have demonstrated unusual ability, high moral character, outstanding motivation, and a broad capacity for leadership;
(2) Show exceptional promise of future development;
(3) Are dedicated to the institutions of the United States and the values of American civilization; and
(4) Will have attained the age of twenty-three but not the age of thirty-six prior to the beginning of their service.
(c) White House Fellows shall be recommended by the Commission and selected by the President without discrimination on the basis of sex, race, color, creed, national origin, or political affiliation.
Sec. 3. 
White House Fellows.
 White House Fellows will be appointed to serve for approximately fifteen months on the staff of the White House Office, the Vice President's office, or the offices of the heads of the ten executive departments, as they may be assigned, beginning on or about June 1 of the year in which they are selected. White House Fellows may, with the approval of the Commission, accept reasonable fellowship stipends from private nonprofit organizations.
Sec. 4. 
Federal Agencies.
 (a) Consonant with law, each Federal agency which may be represented on the Commission shall furnish necessary assistance to the Commission as authorized by section 214 of the Act of May 3, 1945, 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691).
(b) The United States Civil Service Commission shall provide administrative assistance for the Commission and, upon the request of the Commission, shall assist in the conduct of the Commission's work.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House,
October 3, 1964