WHEREAS participation by the United States in the forthcoming international trade negotiations has been made possible by enactment of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962;
WHEREAS these international trade negotiations will have a significant impact upon the economy as well as upon the international relations of the United States; and
WHEREAS the agencies of the United States Government concerned, and, in particular, the Office of the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations, require the advice of public representatives of the economy of the United States in preparing for and participating in these international trade negotiations;
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
Section 1. 
Establishment and membership of Committee.
 (a) There is hereby established a committee to be known as the Public Advisory Committee for Trade Negotiations (hereinafter referred to as the Committee).
(b) The Committee shall be composed of not less than 30 and not more than 40 members, who shall serve without compensation. The members, other than the Chairman, shall be designated by the President from among appropriately qualified citizens of the United States outside the United States Government, and shall be representative of the economy of the United States.
Sec. 2. 
Functions of Committee.
 (a) The Committee shall advise the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations with respect to such matters as he may specify pertaining to the preparation for and the participation in international trade negotiations.
(b) The Committee shall be chaired by the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations or his Deputy and shall meet upon the request of the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations or his Deputy.
Sec. 3. 
Regulations.
 (a) The provisions of Sections 4, 6(a), 6(b), 6(c), 6(f), and 10 of Executive Order No. 11007 of February 26,1962, are hereby adapted and made applicable to the Committee.
(b) The Special Representative for Trade Negotiations shall be responsible for assuring compliance with the above-indicated provisions of Executive Order No. 11007 in relation to the Committee, and he is authorized to exercise the authority contained in sections 6(f) and 10(a) of that order and to prescribe such additional regulations with respect to the Committee as he may deem necessary.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House,
March 2, 1964.