WHEREAS subsection (a) of Section 46 of the Alaska Omnibus Act provides, in part, as follows:
In the event that any disputes arise between the United States and the State of Alaska prior to January 1, 1965, concerning the transfer, conveyance, or other disposal of property to the State of Alaska pursuant to section 6(e) of the Act of July 7, 1958 (72 Stat. 339, 340), providing for the admission of the State of Alaska into the Union, or pursuant to this Act, the President is authorized (1) to appoint by and with the advice and consent of the Senate a temporary commission of three persons, to consider, ascertain, adjust, determine, and settle such disputes, and (2) to make such rules and regulations as may be necessary to establish such temporary commission or as may be necessary to terminate such temporary commission at the conclusion of its duties;
WHEREAS agreement has been reached on the transfer of substantial amounts of property from the Federal Government to the State of Alaska;
WHEREAS a dispute as described in the above-quoted statutory provision has arisen with respect to certain listed properties;
WHEREAS the Governor of the State of Alaska has formally requested that the President appoint a commission as provided in that statutory provision; and
WHEREAS I deem the establishment of such a commission to be in the public interest:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Alaska Omnibus Act (P.L. 86-70, approved June 25, 1959; 73 Stat. 141 et seq.), and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
Section 1. 
The Commission.
 (a) There is hereby established a commission which shall be known as the Temporary Alaska Claims Commission (hereinafter referred to as the Commission).
(b) The Commission shall be composed of three persons, each of whom shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, from among persons who are not officers or employees of either the United States or the State of Alaska. The President shall from time to time designate one of the persons composing the Commission to be the chairman thereof.
(c) The General Services Administration is hereby designated as the agency which shall provide administrative services for the Commission on a reimbursable basis.
Sec. 2. 
Functions of the Commission.
 (a) With respect to certain property which was on December 31,1959, owned or held oy the United States and controlled by the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior or its subdivisions as listed on the attachment hereof headed "SCHEDULE OF PROPERTY", the Commission the Commission shall consider, ascertain, adjust, determine, and settle the dispute which has arisen between the United States and the State of Alaska concerning the transfer, conveyance, or other disposal to the State of Alaska of the said property. The attached "SCHEDULE OF PROPERTY", mentioned above, is hereby made a part of this order.
(b) The Commission shall timely report to the Secretary of the Interior its settlements with respect to the said listed property.
Sec. 3. 
Transfer of property.
 To the extent necessitated by settlements made by the Commission in respect of the property listed on the hereto attached "SCHEDULE OF PROPERTY", the Secretary of the Interior, under the authority of subsection (e) of Section 6 of the Act of July 7, 1958, or under the authority of subsection (a) of Section 45 of the Alaska Omnibus Act as affected by Section 2 of Executive Order No. 10857 of December 29, 1959, as the case may be, shall transfer, convey, or otherwise dispose of the said property to the State of Alaska.
Sec. 4. 
Termination of Commission.
 The Commission shall terminate 60 days after the date of the delivery of its report to the Secretary of the Interior under the provisions of subsection (b) of Section 2 of this order or upon such earlier or later date as the President shall hereafter specify.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House,
March 5, 1964.