By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 2 of the Civil Service Act (22 Stat. 403) and section 1753 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (5 TJ.S.C. 631) and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1 (a). Except as provided by section 3 hereof, any employee of the Postal Field Service who on the date of this order is serving in a position in the competitive service under an indefinite appointment or a temporary appointment may have his appointment converted to a career appointment: Provided, that such employee—
(1) shall be recommended for appointment to a career position by his appointing officer within one year after the date of this order;
(2) during each year of the three-year period ending on the date that conversion of his appointment is recommended, shall have been paid for at least 700 hours of satisfactory work in a position or positions in the Postal Service;
(3) shall have passed a qualifying examination for a position in the competitive service in which he served during such three-year period, or shall meet such noncompetitive standards as the Civil Service Commission shall prescribe with respect to the position held at the time of the agency recommendation for conversion of his appointment.
(b). The conversion of the appointment of a substitute employee shall be effected only as career substitute vacancies are available, under 39 U.S.C. 3302, in the Postal Field Service.
Sec. 2. Any person who left a competitive position to enter the armed forces of the United States who would meet the requirements of section 1 except for absence in the armed forces on the date of this order and who is re-employed in a competitive position in the Postal Field Service within 120 days after discharge from the armed forces under honorable conditions may have his appointment converted if he is recommended by his appointing officer within ninety days after his re-employment and qualifies in such examination as the Civil Service Commission may prescribe.
Sec. 3. This order shall not apply to postmasters or rural carriers.
Sec. 4. The Civil Service Commission may prescribe such regulations as may be necessary for carrying out the provisions of this order.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House,
October 24, 1964.