WHEREAS discrimination on the ground of race, creed, color, or national origin is contrary to the constitutional principles, laws, and policies of the United States; and
WHEREAS a number of Federal departments and agencies have been charged, by statute and executive order, with specific responsibility for eliminating such discrimination, and promoting equal opportunity, and all other Federal departments and agencies have obligations with respect thereto; and
WHEREAS there is need for a single body to review and assist in coordinating the activities of all departments and agencies of the Federal government which are directed toward the elimination of such discrimination and the promotion of equal opportunity:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States by the Constitution and laws of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
Section 1. There is hereby established the President's Council on Equal Opportunity.
Sec. 2. The Council shall consist of the following:
(1) The Vice President of the United States, who shall be the chairman of the Council.
(2) The Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, the Chairman of the Civil Service Commission? the Administrator of the Housing and Home Finance Agency, the Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity, the Chairman of the Commission on Civil Rights, the Chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the Administrator of General Services, the Commissioner of Education, the Director of the Community Relations Service, the Chairman of the President's Committee on Equal Employment Opportunity, the Chairman of the President's Committee on Equal Opportunity in Housing, and such other members as the President may from time to time appoint. Each member may designate an alternate to represent him in his absence.
Sec. 3. There shall be an Executive Secretary of the Council, designated by the chairman, who shall assist the chairman and the Council and shall perform such functions as the chairman or the Council may
Sec. 4. The Council shall—
(1) Recommend to the President such policies, programs and actions as will promote the accomplishment of the purposes of the Civil Rights Acts of 1957 and 1964 and other Federal laws relating to civil rights and the achievement of equal opportunity for all persons, without discrimination on the ground of race, creed, color or national origin.
[graphic]
(2) Advise the President of inadequacies in existing Federal laws, policies, and programs relating to civil rights, and in other Federal activities which affect the free exercise of civil rights or the realization of equal opportunity for all citizens, and make recommendations for their improvement.
(3) Recommend to the President such changes in administrative structure and relationships, including those for merger, combination, or elimination of agencies, committees, or other bodies, or duplicative authority within the Federal establishment, as may be necessary (A) to effectuate the purposes of this order; and (B) to coordinate the activities of Federal departments and agencies relevant to such purposes.
(4) Recommend to the President measures which will promote the coordination of Federal activities with those programs of State and
local governments which promote civil rights and foster equal opportunity.
(5) Assist Federal departments and agencies to coordinate their programs and activities and to adopt consistent and uniform policies, practices, and procedures with respect to civil rights and promotion of equal opportunity.
(6) Request reports or other information from Federal departments and agencies.
(7) Consult with interested public and private groups and individuals.
(8) Convene such conferences as may promote and coordinate the activities of Federal, State, and local governments and private groups with respect to civil rights and the promotion of equal opportunity.
(9) Make such reports to the President as he shall require or the Council shall deem appropriate.
(10) Adopt rules and regulations to carry out its functions. Sec. 5. The Chairman of the Council shall—
(1) Preside over meetings of the Council and assist, coordinate, and guide the work of the Council in carrying out its functions.
(2) Implement decisions of the Council and represent the Council and supervise discharge of its functions and responsibilities between meetings of the Council.
(3) Request such reports and otherwise obtain such information from Federal departments and agencies as the chairman deems necessary to effectuate the purposes of this order or to facilitate the work of the Council.
(4) Appoint subcommittees of the Council and special working or study groups from among Federal department and agency personnel. (5) Appoint staff of the Council.
Sec. 6. The Council shall meet upon the call of the chairman and at such other times as may be provided by its rules and regulations.
Sec. 7. (a) Each Federal department and agency shall cooperate with and assist the Council in the performance of its functions and shall furnish the Council and the chairman with such reports and information as either may request.
(b) Each Federal department and agency represented on the Council shall defray such necessary expenses of and furnish such necessary assistance to, the Council as may be authorized by law, including Section 214 of the Act of May 3, 1945, 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691).
(c) Members of the Council who are officers or employees of the Federal Government shall receive no additional compensation by virtue of membership on the Council. Other members of the Council shall be entitled to receive compensation and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 55a; 5 U.S.C. 73b-2) for persons in the Government service employed intermittently.
(d) The Council is authorized to obtain services in accordance with the provisions of Section 15 of the Act of August 2, 1946 (5 U.S.C. 55a).
(e) The General Services Administration shall provide administrative services for the Council on a reimbursable basis.
Sec. 8. Each Federal department and agency shall designate an officer, of a rank not lower than Deputy Assistant Secretary or the equivalent, to oversee and coordinate the activities of such department or agency related to the purpose of this order, and to serve as liaison with the Council.
Sec. 9. This Order shall be effective immediately.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House,
February 5, 1965.