By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Establishment of Commission. (a) There is hereby established the President's Commission on Law Enforcement and Administration of Justice (hereafter referred to as the "Commission").
(b) The Commission shall be composed of such members, not to exceed twenty, as the President shall appoint, one of whom shall be designated by the President as the chairman. The members and chairman of the Commission shall serve at the pleasure of the President.
(c) The President shall appoint an Executive Secretary, who shall receive such compensation as the President shall specify. The functions and duties of the Executive Secretary shall be prescribed by the Commission.
SEC. 2. Functions of Commission. The Commission shall:
(1) Inquire into the causes of crime and delinquency, measures for their prevention, the adequacy of law enforcement and administration of justice, and the factors encouraging respect or disrespect for law, at the national, State, and local levels, and make such studies, conduct such hearings, and request such information as it deems appropriate for this purpose.
(2) Develop standards and make recommendations for actions which can be taken by the Federal, State, and local governments, and by private persons and organizations, to prevent, reduce, and control crime and increase respect for law, including, but not limited to, improvements in training and qualifications of personnel engaged in law enforcement and related activities, improvements in techniques, organization, and administration of law enforcement activities, improvements in the administration of justice, improvements in correction and rehabilitation of convicted offenders and juvenile delinquents, promotion of better understanding between law, enforcement officials and other members of the community, and promotion of greater respect for law throughout the community.
SEC. 3. Executive Departments and Agencies; Judiciary. The Attorney General, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, and the Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity each shall designate a representative to serve with the Commission as liaison. All executive departments and agencies shall cooperate with the Commission and furnish it such information and assistance, not inconsistent with law, as it, may require in the performance of its functions and duties. The Commission shall consult, as it deems appropriate, with members of the Federal, State, and local judiciary and their assistants concerning matters of common interest.
SEC. 4. Appointment of Committees. The Chairman of the Commission, after consultation with the other members, and at such times as the Commission may deem appropriate, shall constitute Citizens Advisory Committees (hereafter referred to as the "Committees") composed of persons (including persons from State and local governments and other public and voluntary organizations) who are authorities in professional or technical fields related to crime or juvenile delinquency, or persons representative of the general public who are leaders in activities concerned with crime or juvenile delinquency. The Committees, and persons who are members, shall serve at the pleasure of the Commission.
SEC. 5. Functions of Committees. The Committees shall furnish the Commission information, advice, and recommendations with respect to the functions set forth in section 2 of this order and shall engage in such other activities as the Commission may deem appropriate.
SEC. 6, Compensation, Personnel, and Finance. (a) Members of the Commission not otherwise employed by the United States shall receive $100 per diem when engaged in the performance of duties pursuant to this order, and shall be allowed travel expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 55a; 5 U.S.C. 73b-2) for persons employed intermittently.
(b) The Commission is authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of such other personnel as may be necessary to enable it to carry out its functions.
(c) The Commission is authorized to obtain services, including the services of individuals as members of Committees, in accordance with the provisions of section 15 of the Act of August 2, 1946 (5 U.S.C. 55a), at rates for individuals not to exceed $100 per diem.
(d) All necessary expenses incurred in Connection with the work of the Commission shall be paid from the "Special Projects" fund of the President or such other appropriated funds as may be available for the purposes of the Commission.
SEC. 7. Administrative Services. The General Services Administration shall provide administrative services fo,r the Commission on a reimbursable basis.
SEC. 8. Reports to the President and Termination. The Commission shall make reports and recommendations to the President from time to time as it deems suitable and shall present a final report and recommendations not later than eighteen months from the date of this order. The Commission shall terminate not later than ninety days after presenting such final report and recommendations.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House,
July 23, 1965