By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. 
Establishment of Committee.
 (a) There is hereby established the President's Committee on Health Manpower (hereinafter referred to as the "Committee").
 (b) The Committee shall be composed of the Director of the Office of Science and Technology, who shall be the Chairman of the Committee; the Secretary of Defense; the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare; the Secretary of Labor; the Administrator of Veterans Affairs; the Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity; the Director of the Office of Emergency Planning; and the Director of the Selective Service System. Each member of the Committee may designate an alternate, who shall serve as a member of the Committee whenever the regular member is unable to attend any meeting of the Committee. 
SEC. 2. 
Duties of the Committee.
 (a) The Committee shall: 
(1) Appraise the current and prospective national requirements for, and availability of, manpower to meet the health needs of the civilian population and the armed forces; 
(2) Evaluate existing and alternative policies, programs, and practices of public agencies and private institutions and organizations for increasing health manpower and assuring maximum effective use thereof; and 
(3) Develop appropriate recommendations for action by Government or by private institutions, organizations, or individuals for improving the availability and utilization of health manpower. 
(b) Such recommendations shall take into account the final report of the National Advisory Commission on Health Manpower established by Section 3 of this order, which report shall be transmitted to the President with the recommendations of the Committee. 
SEC. 3. 
Establishment of Commission.
 (a) To assist the Committee in carrying out its functions under Section 2 of this order, there is hereby established the National Advisory Commission on Health Manpower (hereinafter referred to as the "Commission"). 
(b) The Commission shall be composed of fifteen members appointed by the President, none of whom shall be officers or full-time employees of the Federal Government. The President shall designate the Chairman of the Commission from among its members. 
(c) The Commission shall meet on call of the Chairman. 
(d) Each member of the Commission may be compensated for each day such member is engaged upon work of the Commission, and shall be reimbursed for travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 55a; 5 U.S.C. 73b-2) for persons in the Government service employed intermittently. 
(e) The Commission shall have an Executive Director, who shall be designated by the President. Under the direction and supervision of the Chairman, the Executive Director shall direct and supervise staff assigned to assist the Commission in carrying out its responsibilities under this order. 
SEC. 4. 
Duties of the Commission.
 (a) The Commission shall transmit to the Committee its independent analysis, evaluation, and recommendations with respect to all matters assigned to the Committee for study and recommendations. 
(b) In carrying out its duties under subsection (a) above, the Commission shall: 
(1) Make a comprehensive study and appraisal of the current situation and trends in the provision of health care for the civilian population and the armed forces and their implications with respect to the current and prospective adequacy and utilization of manpower; 
(2) Appraise the current policies, programs, and practices of public agencies and private institutions and organizations and other factors which have a bearing on the requirements for, and the availability of, health manpower and the effective allocation and utilization of such manpower; and 
(3) Develop appropriate recommendations for action by Government or by private institutions, organizations, or individuals for improving the availability and utilization of health manpower. 
(c) The Commission shall submit its final report and recommendations to the Committee no later than one year after the date of its first meeting, and shall make such interim reports as it deems will contribute to improving the availability and utilization of health manpower. 
SEC. 5. 
Federal departments and agencies.
 (a) The Committee or the Commission is authorized to request from any Federal department or agency any information deemed necessary to carry out its functions under this order; and each department or agency is authorized, consistent with law and within the limits of available funds, to furnish such information to the Committee or the Commission. 
(b) Each department or agency the head of which is named in Section 1(b) of this order shall, as may be necessary, furnish assistance to the Committee or the Commission in accordance with the provisions of Section 214 of the Act of May 3, 1945 (59 Stat. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691), or as otherwise permitted by law. 
(c) The Office of Science and Technology is hereby designated as the agency which shall, on a reimbursable basis, provide administrative services for the Commission. 
SEC. 6. 
Termination of the Committee and the Commission.
 The Committee and the Commission shall terminate ninety days after the final report of the Commission is submitted to the Committee. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON 
The White House
May 7, 1966