By virtue of the authority vested in me by Title I of the Department of Defense Appropriation Act, 1967 (Public Law 89-687, 80 Stat. 980), and by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. The Secretary of Defense, and, when designated by him for this purpose, any of the Secretaries of the military departments of the Department of Defense, are hereby authorized and empowered to exercise the authority vested in the President until June 30, 1968, by Title I of the Department of Defense Appropriation Act, 1967, to order to active duty any member of the Ready Reserve of an armed force who—
(1) is not assigned to, or participating satisfactorily in, a unit in the Ready Reserve, and
(2) has not fulfilled his statutory reserve obligation, and
(3) has not served on active duty or active duty for training for a total of twenty-four months.
SEC. 2. In pursuance of the provisions of Title I of the Department of Defense Appropriation Act, 1967, the Secretary of Defense, and, when designated by him for this purpose, any of the Secretaries of the military departments of the Department of Defense, are hereby authorized to require a member ordered to active duty under this authority to serve on active duty until his total service on active duty or active duty for training equals twenty-four months. If the enlistment or period of military service of a member of the Ready Reserve ordered to active duty under this authority would expire before he has served the required period of active duty prescribed herein, his enlistment or period of military service may be extended until that service on active duty has been completed.
SEC. 3. In pursuance of the provisions of Title I of the Department of Defense Appropriation Act, 1967, and in order to achieve fair treatment as between members in the Ready Reserve who are being considered for active duty under this authority, appropriate consideration shall be given to—
(1) family responsibilities; and
(2) employment necessary to maintain the national health, safety, or interest.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House
February 15, 1967