By virtue of the authority vested in the President by section 5 (b) of the act of October 6, 1917, as amended (12 U.S.C. 95a), and in view of the continued existence of the national emergency declared by Proclamation No. 2914 of December 16, 1950, and the importance of strengthening the balance of payments position of the United States during this national emergency, it is hereby ordered:
1. (a) Any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States who, alone or together with one or more affiliated persons, owns or acquires as much as a 10% interest in the voting securities, capital or earnings of a foreign business venture is prohibited on or after the effective date of this Order, except as expressly authorized by the Secretary of Commerce, from engaging in any transaction involving a direct or indirect transfer of capital to or within any foreign country or to any national thereof outside the United States.
(b) The Secretary of Commerce is authorized to acquire, as he determines to be necessary or appropriate to strengthen the balance of payments position of the United States, that any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States who, alone or together with one or more affiliated persons, owns or acquires as much as a 10% interest in the voting securities, capital or earnings of one or more foreign business ventures shall cause to he repatriated to the United States such part as the Secretary of Commerce may specify of (1) the earnings of such foreign business ventures which are attributable to such person's investments therein and (2) bank deposits and other short term financial assets which are held in foreign countries by or for the account of such person. Any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States is required on or after the effective date of this Order to comply with any such requirement of the Secretary of Commerce.
(c) The Secretary of Commerce shall exempt from the provisions of this section 1, to the extent delineated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (hereinafter referred to as the Board), banks or financial institutions certified by the Board as being subject to the Federal Reserve Foreign Credit Restraint Programs, or to any program instituted by the Board under section 2 of this Order.
2. The Board is authorized in the event that it determines such action to be necessary or desirable to strengthen the balance of payments position of the United States:
(a) to investigate, regulate or prohibit any transaction by any bank or other financial institution subject to the jurisdiction of the United States involving a direct or indirect transfer of capital to or within any foreign country or to any national thereof outside the United States; and
(b) to require that any bank or financial institution subject to the jurisdiction of the United States shall cause to be repatriated to the, United States such part as the Board may specify of the bank deposits and other short term financial assets which are held in foreign countries by or for the account of such bank or financial institution. Any bank or financial institution subject to the jurisdiction of the United States shall comply with any such requirement of the Board on and after its effective date.
3. The Secretary of Commerce and the Board are respectively authorized, under authority delegated to each of them under this Order or otherwise available to them, to carry out the provisions of this Order, and to prescribe such definitions for any terms used herein, to issue such rules and regulations, orders, rulings, licenses and instructions, and to take such other actions, as each of them determines to be necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this Order and their respective responsibilities hereunder. The Secretary of Commerce and the Board may each redelegate to any agency, instrumentality or official of the United States any authority under this Order, and may, in administering this Order, utilize the services of any other agencies, Federal or State, which are available and appropriate.
4. The Secretary of State shall advise the Secretary of Commerce and the Board with respect to matters under this Order involving foreign policy. The Secretary of Commerce and the Board shall consult as necessary and appropriate with each other and with the Secretary of the Treasury.
5. The delegations of authority in this Order shall not affect the authority of any agency or official pursuant to any other delegation of presidential authority, presently in effect or hereafter made, under section 5 (b) of the act of October 6, 1917, as amended (12 U.S.C. 95a).
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House
10:45 a.m. Jan. 1, 1968 L.B.J. Ranch.