WHEREAS the United Nations General Assembly has designated the year 1968 as International Human Rights Year to commemorate the 20th Anniversary of the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; and
WHEREAS the United States has sought in its national and international policies to promote the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in accordance with its heritage of civil and political liberties and in recognition of the human rights of all without distinction of race, color, creed, sex, or national origin; and
WHEREAS, by Proclamation No. 3814 of October 11, 1967, I have designated 1968 as Human Rights Year;
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Establishment of Commission. (a) There is hereby established the President's Commission for the Observance of Human Rights Year 1968 (hereinafter referred to as the "Commission").
(b) The Commission shall be composed of the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Staff Director for the Commission on Civil Rights (42 U.S.C. 1975d (a)), the Chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and ten other members to be appointed by the President from public or private life. The President shall designate the chairman and the vice chairman of the Commission from among its members.
(c) Members of the Commission who are otherwise employed by the United States shall receive no additional compensation by reason of their service to the Commission. Members who are not so employed shall serve without compensation, but shall be entitled to receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5703) for persons so serving.
SEC. 2. Functions of the Commission. (a) The Commission shall promote the effective observance in the United States of 1968 as the 20th Anniversary of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. To this end the Commission shall seek to create a better understanding of the principles of human rights as expressed in the Universal Declaration, the United States Declaration of Independence, the Constitution and laws of the United States, and the Constitutions and laws of the several States of the United States.
(b) The Commission shall provide a focus for the interest of official bodies, Federal, State, and local, which share its purpose. It shall also enlist the cooperation of educational institutions, foundations, mass media, civic, labor, and other organizations which plan to participate in the observance of International Human Rights Year.
(c) The Commission may conduct such other activities as it may deem appropriate to provide for the effective participation of the United States in the celebration of International Human Rights Year. Such activities may include, but need not be limited to, (i) conducting studies, (ii) issuing reports and other publications, and (iii) holding meetings, both public and private, at such times as the Chairman shall determine.
(d) The Commission shall report from time to time to the President on the progress made in the observance of International Human Rights Year in the United States. The final report of the Commission shall be made to the President on or before the date which occurs one year after the date of this order and the Commission shall be deemed to be terminated on the date which so occurs.
SEC. 3. Assistance and cooperation. (a) As may be necessary, each Federal agency, an officer of which is a member of the Commission, may furnish assistance to the Commission in accordance with the provisions of section 214 of the Act of May 3, 1945 (59 Stat. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691), or as otherwise permitted by law. The Department of State is hereby designated as the agency which shall provide the Commission with necessary administrative services and facilities.
(b) The Commission is authorized to request any agency of the executive branch of the Government to furnish the Commission such information and advice as may be useful to it for the fulfillment of its functions under this order. Each such agency is authorized, to the extent permitted by law and within the limits of available funds, to furnish such information and advice to the Commission upon request of the Chairman or Executive Director of the Commission.
(c) Upon request of the Chairman or Executive Director of the Commission each agency of the executive branch of the Government shall otherwise cooperate with the Commission in carrying out the provisions of this order and shall provide the Commission with such additional assistance and service as it may be able to provide.
(d) The Commission shall invite the cooperation of the United States National Commission for UNESCO with a view to coordinating its activities with those of the United States National Commission for UNESCO.
SEC. 4. Commission staff. The Commission shall have an executive director who shall receive such compensation as may hereafter be specified, and it is authorized to obtain services in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 3109.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House
January 30, 1968