By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
Section 1. The national voluntary action program. There shall be undertaken within the executive branch of the government, as provided in this order, a national voluntary action program to encourage and stimulate more widespread and effective voluntary action for solving public domestic problems. That program shall supplement corresponding action by private and other non-Federal organizations. As used in this order, the term "voluntary action" means the contribution or application of non-governmental resources of all kinds (time, money, goods, services, and skills) by private and other organizations of all types (profit and nonprofit, national and local, occupational, and altruistic) and by individual citizens. Such contributions or applications of resources are deemed "voluntary" to the extent they are made without legal compulsion or compensation.
Sec. 2. Cabinet Committee on Voluntary Action. (a) There is hereby established a Cabinet Committee on Voluntary Action (hereinafter referred to as "the Committee").
(b) The Committee shall be composed of the following:
The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
(hereinafter referred to as "the Secretary")
The Attorney General
Secretary of Agriculture Secretary of Commerce
Secretary of Labor
Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare
Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity and such other heads of departments and agencies as the President may from time to time direct.
(c) The Secretary shall be the Chairman of the Committee.
Sec. 3. Functions of the Committee. The Committee shall advise and assist the President with respect to the national voluntary action program and shall perform such other duties as the President may from time to time prescribe. In addition to such duties, the Committee is directed to:
(a) Foster cooperation among the various departments and agencies on programs related to voluntary action.
(b) Promote more widespread reliance on and recognition of voluntary activities.
(c) Provide a focal point through which voluntary organizations can better make their needs and concerns known to the Federal Government.
(d) Advise and participate in the development of new Federal initiatives for encouraging voluntary action.
Sec. 4. Functions of Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. The Secretary shall:
(a) Encourage the development and implementation of Federal and non-Federal voluntary activities directed toward the solution or mitigation of problems associated with conditions of urban living or with poverty.
(b) Provide for the development and operation of a clearinghouse for information on private voluntary action, and on Government programs designed to foster voluntary action.
(c) Initiate proposals for the greater and more effective application of voluntary action in connection with Federal programs dealing with problems of urban living or poverty, and coordinate, as consistent with law, Federal activities involving such action.
(d) Cooperate with private organizations in their efforts to stimulate more widespread and effective private voluntary action for attacking problems or urban living or poverty.
(e) Make grants of seed money, as authorized by law, for stimulating the development or deployment of innovative private voluntary action programs directed toward problems associated with conditions of urban living or poverty.
(f) Perform such other duties with respect to the voluntary action program as the Secretary deems advisable.
Sec. 5. Responsibilities of departments and agencies. (a) The head of each Federal department and agency, or a representative designated by him, when so requested by the Secretary, shall, to the extent of authority and available funds, furnish information and assistance, and participate in all ways appropriate to carry out the objectives of this order.
(b) The head of each Federal department or agency shall, when so requested by the Secretary, designate a senior official to have primary and continuing responsibility for the participation and cooperation of that department or agency in matters concerning voluntary action.
(c) The head of each Federal department or agency, or his designated representative, shall keep the Secretary informed of all proposed budgets, plans, and programs of his department or agency affecting the voluntary action program.
Sec. 6. Construction. Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any department, establishment, or other instrumentality of the executive branch of the Federal Government or the head thereof, or any function vested by law in or assigned pursuant to law to any such agency or head, to the authority of any other such agency or head or as abrogating, modifying, or restricting any such function in any manner.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
May 26, 1969