By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the United States, and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Establishment of the Committee. (a) There is hereby established the Cabinet Committee on Economic Policy (hereinafter referred to as "the Committee").
(b) The President shall preside over meetings of the Committee. The Vice President shall preside in the absence of the President.
(c) The Committee shall be composed of the following:
The Vice President Secretary of the Treasury
Secretary of Agriculture
Secretary of Commerce
Secretary of Labor
Director of the Bureau of the Budget
Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers Counsellor to the President
and such other heads of departments and agencies as the President may from time to time designate.
SEC. 2. Functions of the Committee. The Committee shall advise and assist the President in the development and coordination of national economic programs and policies and shall perform such other duties as the President may from time to time prescribe. In addition to such duties, the Committee shall:
(1) Assist the President in the formulation of the basic goals and objectives of national economic policy;
(2) Develop recommendations for the basic strategy of national economic policy to serve as guides for decisions concerning specific economic programs and policies;
(3) Promote the coordination of Federal economic programs;
(4) Consult with individuals from academic, agricultural, business, consumer, labor and other groups to assure the consideration of a wide range of views about national economic policy; and
(5) Recommend procedures for evaluating the effectiveness of Federal programs in contributing to our national economic objectives.
SEC. 3. Administrative Arrangements. (a) The Chair-man of the Council of Economic Advisers will coordinate the work of the Committee.
(b) In compliance with provisions of applicable law, and as necessary to effectuate the purposes of this order, (1) The White House Office shall provide or arrange for supporting clerical administrative and other staff services for the Committee and (2) each Federal department and agency which is represented on the Committee shall furnish the Committee such information and other assistance as may be available.
SEC. 4. Construction. Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any department, establishment, or other instrumentality of the executive branch of the Federal Government or the head thereof, or any function vested by law in or assigned pursuant to law to any such agency or head, to the authority of any other such agency or head or as abrogating, modifying, or restricting any such function in any manner.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
January 24, 1969