By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, and as Commander in Chief of the armed forces of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
1. There is hereby established a Vice Presidential Service Certificate to be awarded in the name of the Vice President of the United States to members of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Coast Guard who have been assigned to duty in the Office of the Vice President for a period of at least one year subsequent to January 20, 1969.
2. The Vice Presidential Service Certificate, the design of which accompanies and is hereby made a part of this Order, may be awarded upon recommendation of the Military Assistant to the Vice President by the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Navy, the Secretary of the Air Force, or, when the Coast Guard is not operating as a service in the Navy, the Secretary of Transportation, to military personnel of their respective services.
3. There is hereby established a Vice Presidential Service Badge, the design of which accompanies and is hereby made a part of this Order. The Vice Presidential Service Badge may be awarded, upon recommendation of the Military Assistant to the Vice President, by the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Navy, the Secretary of the Air Force, or, when the Coast Guard is not operating as a service in the Navy, the Secretary of Transportation, have been assigned to duty in the Office of the Vice President.
4. Upon award of the Vice Presidential Service Certificate, the Vice Presidential Service Badge may be worn as a part of the uniform of an individual both during and after his assignment to duty in the Office of the Vice President.
5. Only one Vice Presidential Service Certificate will be awarded to an individual during an administration. Only one Vice Presidential Service Badge will be awarded to an individual.
6. The Vice Presidential Service Certificate and the Vice Presidential Service Badge established by this Order may be granted posthumously.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
July 8, 1970