By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Establishment of the Council. (a) There is hereby established the National Business Council for Consumer Affairs (hereinafter referred to as the "Council") which shall be composed of a Chairman, a Vice Chairman, and other representatives of business and industry appointed by the Secretary of Commerce (hereinafter referred to as the "Secretary").
(b) The Secretary, with the concurrence of the Chairman, shall appoint an Executive Director of the Council.
SEC. 2. Functions of the Council. The Council shall advise the President, the Office of Consumer Affairs, the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of Justice, and other Government agencies as appropriate, through the Secretary, on programs of business relating to consumer affairs. It shall work closely with the above-described agencies in the further development of effective policies to benefit American consumers and in doing so may—
(1) Identify and examine current and potential consumer problems and evaluate alternative solutions.
(2) Provide a forum for business and government on current and emerging issues in the field of consumer affairs.
(3) Identify, recommend, and encourage action by the business community to meet legitimate consumer grievances. 
(4) Provide liaison among members of the business and industrial community on consumer affairs matters.
(5) Advise on plans and actions of Federal, State, and local agencies involving policies on consumer affairs which affect business and industry.
SEC. 3. Subordinate Councils. The Council may establish, with the concurrence of the Secretary, such subordinate councils as it may deem appropriate to assist in the performance of its functions. Each subordinate council shall be headed by a chairman appointed by the Chairman of the Council with the concurrence of the Secretary.
SEC. 4. Assistance for the Council. In compliance with applicable law, and as necessary to serve the purposes of this Order, the Secretary shall provide or arrange for administrative and staff services, support, and facilities for the Council and any of its subordinate councils.
SEC. 5. Expenses. Members of the Council or any of its subordinate councils shall receive no compensation from the United States by reason of their services hereunder, but may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5703) for persons in the Government service employed intermittently.
SEC. 6. Regulations. The provisions of Executive Order No. 11007 of February 26, 1962, prescribing regulations for the use of advisory committees, are hereby made applicable to the Council and each of its subordinate councils. The Secretary may exercise the discretionary powers set forth in that order.
SEC. 7. Construction. Nothing in this Order shall be construed as subjecting any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal agency to the authority of any other Federal agency or of the Council or of any of its subordinate councils, or as abrogating or restricting any such function in any manner.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
August 5, 1971