By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (75 Stat. 424), as amended (hereinafter the "Act"), and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Transfer to Overseas Private Investment Corporation. All obligations, assets and related rights and responsibilities arising out of, or related to, predecessor programs and authorities similar to those provided for in sections 234 (a), (b) and (d) of the Act are hereby transferred to the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (hereinafter the "Corporation").
SEC. 2. Delegation of functions. (a) The functions conferred upon the President by sections 621 (b), 625 (d) (1), 627, 628, 629 (b), 630, and 635 (d) of the Act insofar as such functions relate to the operation of the Corporation, its activities, or personnel are hereby delegated to the Corporation: Provided, That the concurrence of the Secretary of State shall he required with respect to the exercise by the Corporation of so much of the functions herein delegated pursuant to section 625 (d) (1) of the Act as consists of authorization of compensation at any of the rates provided for the Foreign Service Reserve and Staff by the Foreign Service Act of 1946 for persons employed or assigned by the Corporation.
(b) The function of prescribing regulations relating to the reinstatement or restoration of officers and employees of the Corporation to other government positions, when their appointment to a position in the Corporation was made from another government position and their separation from the Corporation was not made for cause, is hereby delegated to the Civil Service Commission.
SEC. 3. Allocation and transfer of funds. Funds made available under section 232 of the Act (repealed by section 105 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1969) which are obligated but unexpended are hereby transferred to the Corporation.
SEC. 4. General provisions. (a) As used in this order, the words "function" or "functions" include any duty, obligation, power, authority, responsibility, right, privilege, discretion, or activity.
(b) The Corporation shall be deemed to be the successor of the Agency for International Development and the Administrator thereof, with respect to all functions vested in the Corporation pursuant to law.
(c) Except to the extent that they may be inconsistent with this order, all determinations, authorizations, regulations, rulings, certificates, orders, directives, contracts, agreements, and other actions made, issued, or entered into with respect to any function affected by this order and not revoked, superseded or otherwise made inapplicable before the date of this order, shall continue in full force and effect until amended, modified, or terminated by appropriate authority.
(d) Executive Order No. 10973 of November 3, 1961, as amended, is hereby superseded insofar as any provision therein is in conflict with any provision herein.
(e) The provisions of this order shall become effective upon adoption by the Board of Director of bylaws for the Corporation.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
January 19, 1971