By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States and in furtherance of the purposes and policies of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and the Endangered Species Conservation Act of 1969 (16 U.S.C. 668aa), it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Policy. It is the policy of the Federal Government to (1) restrict the use on Federal lands of chemical toxicants for the purpose of killing predatory mammals or birds; (2) restrict the use on such lands of chemical toxicants which cause any secondary poisoning effects for the purpose of killing other mammals, birds, or reptiles; and (3) restrict the use of both such types of toxicants in any Federal programs of mammal or bird damage control that may be authorized by law. All such mammal or bird damage control programs shall be conducted in a manner which contributes to the maintenance of environmental quality, and to the conservation and protection, to the greatest degree possible, of the Nation's wildlife resources, including predatory animals.
SEC. 2. Definitions. As used in this order the term:
(a) "Federal lands" means all real property owned by or leased to the Federal Government, excluding (1) lands administered by the Secretary of the Interior pursuant to his trust responsibilities for Indian affairs, and (2) real property located in metropolitan areas.
(b) "Agencies" means the departments, agencies, and establishments of the executive branch of the Federal Government.
(c) "Chemical toxicant" means any chemical substance which, when ingested, inhaled, or absorbed, or when applied to or injected into the body, in relatively small amounts, by its chemical action may cause significant bodily malfunction, injury, illness, or death, to animals or man.
(d) "Predatory mammal or bird" means any mammal or bird which habitually preys upon other animals or birds.
(e) "Secondary poisoning effect" means the result attributable to a chemical toxicant which, after being ingested, inhaled, or absorbed, or when applied to or injected into, a mammal, bird, or reptile, is retained in its tissue, or otherwise retained in such a manner and quantity that the tissue itself or retaining part if thereafter ingested by man, mammal, bird, or reptile, produces the effects set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
(f) "Field use" means use on lands not in, or immediately adjacent to, occupied buildings.
SEC. 3. Restrictions on Use of Chemical Toxicants.
(a) Heads of agencies shall take such action as is necessary to prevent on any Federal lands under their jurisdiction, or in any Federal program of mammal or bird damage control under their jurisdiction:
(1) the field use of any chemical toxicant for the purpose of killing a predatory mammal or bird; or
(2) the field use of any chemical toxicant which causes any secondary poisoning effect for the purpose of killing mammals, birds, or reptiles.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, the head of any agency may authorize the emergency use on Federal lands under his jurisdiction of a chemical toxicant for the purpose of killing predatory mammals or birds, or of a chemical toxicant which causes a secondary poisoning effect for the purpose of killing other mammals, birds, or reptiles, but only if in each specific case he makes a written finding, following consultation with the Secretaries of the Interior, Agriculture, and Health, Education, and Welfare, and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, that any emergency exists that cannot be dealt with by means which do not involve use of chemical toxicants, and that such use is essential:
(1) to the protection of the health or safety of human life;
(2) to the preservation of one or more wildlife species threatened with extinction, or likely within the foreseeable future to become so threatened; or
(3) to the prevention of substantial irretrievable damage to nationally significant natural resources.
SEC. 4. Rules for Implementation of Order. Heads of agencies shall issue such rules or regulations as may be necessary and appropriate to carry out the provisions and policy of this order.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
February 8, 1972