This Administration is determined to eradicate the menace of drug abuse in America. Many steps have already been taken toward that end, including measures to restrict the flow of narcotics from abroad, to strengthen domestic law enforcement activities, to initiate programs for drug abuse prevention, education, treatment, and rehabilitation. I have now determined that a National Narcotics Intelligence System is a necessary next step in our campaign against illegal drug traffic, and that that system should be developed and maintained by a new office of National Narcotics Intelligence within the Department of Justice.
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, including section 5317 of Title 5 of the United States Code, as amended, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. (a) The Attorney General of the United States shall provide for the establishment within the Department of Justice of an "Office of National Narcotics Intelligence." This Office shall be headed by a Director.
(b) The Director shall be responsible for the development and maintenance of a National Narcotics Intelligence System. In developing that system, the Director shall call upon other agencies of the Government to provide him with information, and such agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Director with all information that is pertinent to the development and maintenance of a National Narcotics Intelligence System. The Director shall also call upon State and local agencies to provide him with such information.
(c) The Director shall be authorized to provide narcotics intelligence to any Federal, State, or local official that the Director determines has a legitimate official need to have access to such intelligence. These functions shall be performed under the general supervision and direction of the Attorney General, and the Attorney General shall delegate to the Director such authority as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order.
SEC. 2. The Director shall cooperate with the Director of the Office of Drug Abuse Law Enforcement in order to assist him in ensuring that all steps permitted by law are being taken by Federal, State, and local governments and, to the extent feasible, by private persons and organizations, to prevent drug abuse in the United States.
SEC. 3. Section 1 of Executive Order No. 11248 of October 10, 1965, as amended, is further amended by deleting "(13) Chairman, Price Commission," and by inserting in lieu thereof " (13) Director, Office of National Narcotics Intelligence."
SEC. 4. Each department and agency of the Federal Government shall, upon request and to the extent permitted by law, assist the Director of the Office of National Narcotics Intelligence in the performance of functions assigned to him by or pursuant to this order, and the Director may, in carrying out those functions, utilize the services of any other agencies, Federal and State, as may be available and appropriate.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
July 27, 1972