By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States of America by the Constitution and statutes of the United Sates, including the Economic Stabilization Act of 1970 (P.L. 91-379,84 Stat. 799), as amended, the Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act of 1973 (P.L. 93-159), the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2061, et seq.), as amended, and Section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. There is hereby established in the Executive Office of the President a Federal Energy Office. The Office shall be under the immediate supervision and direction of an Administrator and a Deputy Administrator of the Federal Energy Office. The Administrator shall be the Deputy Secretary of the Treasury.
SEC. 2. The Administrator of the Federal Energy Office shall advise the President with respect to the establishment and integration of domestic and foreign policies relating to the production, conservation, use, control, distribution, and allocation of energy and with respect to all other energy matters.
SEC. 3 (a) There is hereby delegated to the Administrator all the authority vested in the President by the Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act of 1973.
(b) The Administrator shall either submit to the Congress the reports required by Section 4 (c) (2) of the Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act, or may require any other officer or any department or agency of the United States to submit the required reports to Congress.
SEC. 4 (a) There is hereby delegated to the Administrator the authority vested in the President by Section 203 (a) (3) of the Economic Stabilization Act of 1970, as amended.
(b) The Chairman of the Cost of Living Council shall, from time to time, delegate to the Administrator such authority under the Economic Stabilization Act as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of that Act with respect to energy matters.
SEC. 5. There is hereby delegated to the Administrator the authority vested in the President by the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended, as it relates to the production, conservation, use, control, distribution, and allocation of energy. Any provision of Executive Order No. 10480, as amended, which is inconsistent with the exercise of such authority is hereby suspended for so long as this Section remains in effect.
SEC. 6. Executive Order No. 11726 of June 29, 1973, is hereby superseded to the extent that it is inconsistent with this Order.
SEC. 7. All Orders, regulations, circulars, or other directives issued and all other actions taken pursuant to any authority delegated to the Administrator by this Order prior to and in effect on the date of this Order are hereby confirmed and ratified, and shall remain in full force and effect, as if issued under this Order, unless or until altered, amended, or revoked by the Administrator or by such competent authority as he may specify.
SEC. 8. All authority delegated to and placed in the Administrator by this Order may be further delegated, in whole or in part, by the Administrator to any other officer or any department or agency of the United States.
SEC. 9 (a) Necessary expenses of the Federal Energy Office may be paid from the Emergency Fund of the President or from such other funds as may be available.
(b) The Administrator of the General Services Administration shall provide, on a reimbursable basis, such administrative support as may be needed by the Federal Energy Office.
(c) All departments and agencies of the executive branch shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide assistance and information to the Administrator of the Federal Energy Office.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
December 4, 1973.