By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, and as President of the United States of America, in furtherance of the purposes and policies of the Lacey Act (18 U.S.C. 42) and the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. As used in this Order: 
(a) "United States" means all of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands. 
(b) "Introduction" means the release, escape, or establishment of an exotic species into a natural ecosystem. 
(c) "Exotic species" means all species of plants and animals not naturally occurring, either presently or historically, in any ecosystem of the United States. 
(d) "Native species" means all species of plants and animals naturally occurring, either presently or historically, in any ecosystem of the United States. 
SEC. 2. (a) Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, restrict the introduction of exotic species into the natural ecosystems on lands and waters which they own, lease, or hold for purposes of administration; and, shall encourage the States, local governments, and private citizens to prevent the introduction of exotic species into natural ecosystems of the United States. 
(b) Executive agencies, to the extent they have been authorized by statute to restrict the importation of exotic species, shall restrict the introduction of exotic species into any natural ecosystem of the United States. 
(c) Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, restrict the use of Federal funds, programs, or authorities used to export native species for the purpose of introducing such species into ecosystems outside the United States where they do not naturally occur. 
(d) This Order does not apply to the introduction of any exotic species, or the export of any native species, if the Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of the Interior finds that such introduction or exportation will not have an adverse effect on natural ecosystems. 
SEC. 3. The Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture and the heads of other appropriate agencies, shall develop and implement, by rule or regulation, a system to standardize and simplify the requirements, procedures and other activities appropriate for implementing the provisions of this Order. The Secretary of the Interior shall ensure that such rules or regulations are in accord with the performance by other agencies of those functions vested by law, including this Order, in such agencies. 
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
May 24, 1977. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 1:41 p.m., May 24, 1977]