ADMINISTRATION OF THE EXPORT ADMINISTRATION ACT OF 1969, AS AMENDED
By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, including the Export Administration Act of 1969, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 2401, et seq.), and as President of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. Except as provided in Section 2, the power, authority, and discretion conferred upon the President by the provisions of the Export Administration Act of 1969, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 2401, et seq.), hereinafter referred to as the Act, are delegated to the Secretary, of Commerce, with the power of successive redelegation. 
SEC. 2. (a) The power, authority and discretion conferred upon the President in Sections 4(h) and 4(1) of the Act are retained by the President. 
(b) The power, authority and discretion conferred upon the President in Section 3(8) of the Act, which directs that every reasonable effort be made to secure the removal or reduction of assistance by foreign countries to international terrorists through cooperation and agreement, are delegated to the Secretary of State, with the power of successive redelegation. 
SEC. 3. The Export Administration Review Board, hereinafter referred to as the Board, which was established by Executive Order No. 11533 of June 4, 1970, as amended, is hereby continued. The Board shall continue to have as members the Secretary of Commerce, who shall be Chairman of the Board, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, and the Chairman of the East-West Foreign Trade Board (Section 7 of Executive Order No. 11846, as amended). No alternate Board members shall be designated, but the acting, head of any department may serve in lieu of the head of the concerned department. In the case of the East-West Foreign Trade Board, the Deputy Chairman or the Executive Secretary may serve in lieu of the Chairman. The Board may invite the heads of other United States Government departments or agencies, other than the agencies represented by Board members, to participate in the activities of the Board when matters of interest to such departments or agencies are under consideration. 
SEC. 4. The Secretary of Commerce may from time to time refer to the Board such particular export license matters, involving questions of national security or other major policy issues, as the Secretary shall select. The Secretary of Commerce shall also refer to the Board any other such export license matter, upon the request of any other member of the Board or of the head of any other United States Government department or agency having any interest in such matter. The Board shall consider the matters so referred to it, giving due consideration to the foreign policy of the United States, the national security, and the domestic economy, and shall make recommendation thereon to the Secretary of Commerce. 
SEC. 5. The President may at any time (a) prescribe rules and regulations applicable to the power, authority, and discreation referred to in this Order, and (b) communicate to the Secretary of Commerce such specific directives applicable thereto as the President shall determine. The Secretary of Commerce shall from time to time report to the President upon the administration of the Act and, as the Secretary deems necessary, may refer to the President recommendations made by the Board under Section 4 of this Order. Neither the provisions of this section nor those of Section 4 shall be construed as limiting the provisions of Section 1 of this Order. 
SEC.. 6. All delegations, rules, regulations, orders, licenses, and other forms of administrative action made, issued, or otherwise taken under, or continued in existence by, the Executive orders revoked in Section 7 of this Order, and not revoked administratively or legislatively, shall remain in full force and effect under this Order until amended, modified, or terminated by proper authority. The revocations in Section 7 of this Order shall not affect any violation of any rules, regulations, orders, licenses or other forms of administrative action under those Orders during the period those Orders were in effect. 
SEC. 7. Executive Order No. 11533 of June 4, 1970, Executive Order No. 11683 of August 29, 1972, Executive Order No. 11798 of August 14, 1974, Executive Order No. 11818 of November 5, 1974, Executive Order No. 11907 of March 1, 1976, and Executive Order No. 11940 of September 30, 1976 are hereby revoked. 
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
July 7, 1977.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:13 p.m., July 7, 1977]