By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, and in order to create in accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I) an advisory commission on the membership of the United States Court of Military Appeals, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
1-1. Establishment of the Commission. 
1-101. There is established the United States Court of Military Appeals Nominating Commission. The Commission shall be comprised of six members appointed by the President. 
1-102. Not more than three members shall be officials of the Federal government. The Federal members shall include the General Counsel of the Department of Defense, who shall chair the Commission. The private members shall be selected from among those in the legal profession. 
1-2. Functions of the Commission. 
1-201. When notified by the President that he desires its assistance in filling a vacancy on the United States Court of Military Appeals, the Commission shall conduct inquiries to identify persons who may be qualified to serve in the position and shall conduct further inquiries to determine those persons' qualifications. 
1-202. In conducting its inquiries the Commission shall follow any procedures or criteria established by the President in his letter of notification or by the Secretary of Defense acting on behalf of the President. 
1-203. The Commission shall submit a report to the President and to the Secretary of Defense within 60 days from the date it is notified by the President that he desires its assistance. The report shall list the names of no more than five persons whom the Commission considers well qualified to serve in the position. 
1-204. The Commission shall conduct such additional inquiries and submit such additional reports as may be requested by the President. 
1-205. The Commission shall perform no function except when requested by the President to assist him in filling a vacancy. 
1-3. Administrative Provisions. 
1-301. The Commission is authorized to request from any Executive agency such information or assistance as the Commission deems necessary to carry out its functions under this Order. Each agency shall, to the extent permitted by law, furnish such information or assistance to the Commission. 
1-302. The Commission is authorized to request from any State agency such information and assistance as the Commission deems necessary. It is authorized to obtain such information and assistance to the extent permitted by State law. 
1-303. Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation. While engaged in the work of the Commission, members may receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and 5703). 
1-304. The Secretary of Defense shall furnish to the Commission necessary administrative support. 
1-305. All necessary expenses incurred in connection with the work of the Commission, to the extent permitted by law, shall be paid from funds available to the Secretary of Defense. 
1-4. General Provision. 
1-401. No member of the Commission shall, while serving on the Commission or for a period of one year thereafter, be eligible to be nominated to fill a position as a judge on the Court of Military Appeals. 
1-402. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting annually to the Congress, which are applicable to the Commission, shall be performed by the Secretary of Defense in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
1-403. The Commission shall terminate on December 31, 1978, unless sooner extended. 
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
June 5, 1978.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:18 a.m., June 6, 1978]