By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory committee on matters relating to the use of coal in meeting energy demand in the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
1-1. Establishment. 
1-101. There is established the White House Coal Advisory Council. 
1-102. The Council shall be composed of nine members appointed by the President, none of whom shall be an officer or a full-time employee of the United States Government. The President shall designate one of the members to Chair the Council. 
1-2. Functions. 
1-201. Whenever requested by the President or the Secretary of Labor, the Council shall advise the President and the Secretary of Labor on matters pertaining to labor-management relations in the coal industry, to mine safety, and to productivity in the coal industry. 
1-202. The Council shall, from time to time, advise the President or the Secretary of Labor on other issues when the President or the Secretary specifically request the advice of the Council on a particular matter. 
1-3. Administration. 
1-301. The Secretary of Labor shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide the Council with such administrative services, funds, facilities, staff, and other support as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions. 
1-302. Members of the Council shall serve without compensation. While engaged in the work of the Council, members may receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and 5703). 
1-4. General Provisions. 
1-401. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting annually to the Congress, which are applicable to the Council, shall be performed by the Secretary of Labor in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
1-402. The Council shall terminate one year from the date of this Order. 
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
July 29, 1980.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:11 p.m., July 29, 1980]