NONCOMPETITIVE CONVERSION OF CETA PARTICIPANTS TO CAREER OR
CAREER CONDITIONAL CIVIL SERVICE STATUS 
By the authority vested in me as President of the United States of America by Sections 3301 and 3302 of Title 5 of the United States Code, and to provide opportunities for unemployed or disadvantaged persons to enter the Federal Civil Service, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
1-101. Subject to the Civil Service laws, rules, and regulations, Executive agencies may, subject to approval by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, give excepted appointments to qualified persons who have successfully completed job training funded through the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act, as amended (29 U.S.C. 801 et seq.) or a work experience program hosted by an Executive agency under this statute. 
1-102. Such appointments may be to any position up to and including CS-3, or the equivalent thereof, for which the appointee is otherwise qualified under the Civil Service laws, rules, and regulations. 
1-103. No one shall be eligible for such an appointment if more than three months have expired since the successful completion of the job training or work experience program. 
1-104. Excepted appointments under the authority of this Order are only authorized pursuant to an employment training program developed by an agency in accordance with guidelines established by the Office of Personnel Management. These guidelines will provide for due credit for training acquired during a hosted work experience program. Continued employment under such excepted appointments is subject to the satisfactory performance of assigned duties and satisfactory participation in such employment training program. 
1-105. An agency may noncompetitively convert an excepted appointment under this authority to career or careerconditional appointment, provided the appointee satisfactorily completes at least six months of continuous service, and otherwise meets the qualifications and other requirements established by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management. Prior to an individual being converted to a career or career-conditional appointment, each agency shall conduct a careful and formal evaluation of the individual's performance. 
1-106. The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall issue employment training program guidelines which shall include procedures for periodically evaluating the performance of such appointees and for the prompt separation of those who do not satisfactorily perform assigned duties. The Director shall also prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to implement this Order. 
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
December 18, 1980. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:31 a.m., December 19, 1980]