By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, in accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), and in order to create a commission to develop recommendations with respect to broadcasting of information and ideas to Cuba, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the Presidential Commission on Broadcasting to Cuba. 
(b) The Commission shall be composed of 11 members appointed by the President from among citizens of the United States. 
(c) The President shall designate one of the members to be the Chairman. 
(d) There shall be a three member Executive Committee of the Commission which shall be composed of the Chairman and two other members elected by the Commission. Sec. 2. Functions. 
(a) The Commission shall develop a recommended plan for radio broadcasting intended for transmission to Cuba. The purpose of the plan shall be to promote open communication of information and ideas to Cuba and in particular broadcasting to the Cuban people of accurate information about Cuba. 
(b) The Commission shall examine issues related to effectively carrying out such a plan for radio broadcasting to Cuba. These shall include, but not be limited to, possible program content, information gathering, writing and editing needs, staffing requirements, legal structure for a broadcasting organization, proposed legislation, sample budgets, and the location, structure and function of possible broadcasting stations. 
(c) The Commission may conduct studies, inquiries, hearings, and meetings as it deems necessary. It may assemble and disseminate information, and issue reports and other publications. It may also coordinate, sponsor, or oversee projects, studies, events and other activities that it deems necessary or desirable for development of a recommended program of broadcasting to Cuba. 
(d) The Executive Committee may coordinate the work of the Commission and may act on behalf of the whole Commission. 
(e) The Commission shall submit its recommendations and final report to the President and the Secretary of State no later than October 1, 1982. 
Sec. 3. Administration. 
(a) Members of the Commission who are not otherwise Government employees shall serve without any compensation for their work on the Commission. However, all members shall be entitled to travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707). 
(b) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Commission such information and advice with respect to radio broadcasting to Cuba as the Commission may require for the purpose of carrying out its functions. 
(c) Expenses of the Commission shall be paid from funds available to the Secretary of State. 
Sec. 4. General. 
(a) Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), which are applicable to the Commission, except that of reporting annually to the Congress, shall be performed by the Secretary of State in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
(b) The Commission shall terminate on October 1, 1982, or 60 days after submitting its final report, whichever is earlier.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
September 22, 1981. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10 a.m., September 24, 1981]