By the authority vested in me as President of the United States, and to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory committee to assist in efforts to increase private sector support for the arts and the humanities, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the President's Committee on the Arts and the Humanities. The Committee shall be composed of the Chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts; the Chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities; the Secretary of the Treasury; the Secretary of the Interior; the Secretary of Education; the Administrator of General Services; the Director of the Institute of Museum Services; the Director of the International Communication Agency; a member designated by the Secretary of State; and not more than twenty persons who are not full-time officers or employees of the Federal Government ("non-Federal members"), who shall be appointed by the President and shall be selected from among private individuals and State and local public officials who have a demonstrated interest in and commitment to support for the arts or the humanities. In addition, the Majority Leader of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives are each invited to designate a member of the Committee for appointment by the President, and the Librarian of Congress, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and the Director of the National Gallery of Art are invited to serve as members of the Committee. 
(b) The President shall designate a Chairman or Co-Chairmen from among the non-Federal members of the Committee, and may also designate Vice Chairmen from among members of the Committee. 
Sec. 2. Functions. The Committee shall analyze, and make recommendations to the President and to the National Endowment for the Arts and the National Endowment for the Humanities with respect to, (i) ways to promote private sector support for the arts and the humanities, especially at the State and local levels; (ii) the effectiveness of Federal support for the arts and the humanities in stimulating increased private sector support, taking into account the economic needs and problems of the arts and the humanities and their relationship with the private sector; (iii) the planning and coordination of appropriate participation (including productions and projects) in major and historic national events; and (iv) ways to promote the recognition of excellence in the fields of the arts and the humanities. In performing these functions, the Committee shall collect, maintain and make available for appropriate distribution data on the sources and levels of public and private sector support for the arts and the humanities, and on the availability of cultural resources locally. The Committee's functions shall not conflict with the responsibilities of the National Council on the Arts and the National Council on the Humanities. 
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) Members of the Committee shall serve without additional compensation for their work on the Committee. However, members of the Committee who are not full-time officers or employees of the Federal Government may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707), to the extent funds are available therefor. 
(b) Any administrative support or other expenses of the Committee shall be paid, to the extent permitted by law, from funds available to the National Endowment for the Arts. 
Sec. 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive Order, the responsibilities of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, except that of reporting annually to the Congress, which are applicable to the Committee, shall be performed by the Chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts, in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services.
(b) The Committee shall terminate on December 31, 1982, unless sooner extended.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
June 15, 1982. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:06 a.m., June 16, 1982]