By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to aid the States in their fight against the epidemic of drunk driving on the Nation's roads, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment, There is hereby established the Presidential Commission on Drunk Driving. The Commission shall be composed of no more than 26 members appointed by the President. In addition, the Majority Leader of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives are invited to designate two Members of each House to participate. The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the Commission. 
Sec. 2. Functions. The Commission shall undertake to:
(a) heighten public awareness of the seriousness of the drunk driving problem; 
(b) persuade States and communities to attack the drunk driving problem in a more organized and systematic manner, including plans to eliminate bottlenecks in the arrest, trial and sentencing process that impair the effectiveness of many drunk driving laws; 
(c) encourage State and local officials and organizations to accept and use the latest techniques and methods to solve the problem; and 
(d) generate public support for increased enforcement of State and local drunk driving laws. 
Sec. 3. Administration. 
(a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Commission with such information on drunk driving and highway safety issues and such other support as it may request for the effective performance of its functions. 
(b) Members of the Commission shall receive no compensation for their work on the Commission. However, the Secretary of Transportation may allow members to be reimbursed for travel expenses while engaged in the work of the Commission, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707). 
(c) The Department of Transportation shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide the Commission with such administrative services, funds, facilities, staff and other support services as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions. 
Sec. 4. General Provisions. 
(a) The Commission is authorized to conduct public meetings and utilize such other procedures as it may deem necessary for the effective performance of its functions. 
(b) The Commission shall terminate one year from this date.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
April 14, 1982. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 3:27 p.m., April 14, 1982]