By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory committee on organized crime, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. (a) There is established the President's Commission on Organized Crime. The Commission shall be composed of not more than twenty members appointed or designated by the President. 
(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the Commission. 
Sec. 2. (a) The Commission shall make a full and complete national and region-by-region analysis of organized crime; define the nature of traditional organized crime as well as emerging organized crime groups, the sources and amounts of organized crime's income, and the uses to which organized crime puts its income; develop indepth information on the participants in organized crime networks; and evaluate Federal laws pertinent to the effort to combat organized crime. The Commission shall advise the President and the Attorney General with respect to its findings and actions which can be undertaken to improve law enforcement efforts directed against organized crime, and make recommendations concerning appropriate administrative and legislative improvements and improvements in the administration of justice. 
(b) The Commission shall report to the President from time to time as requested and shall submit its final report by March 1, 1986. 
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Commission such information as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions. 
(b) Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation for their work on the Commission. However, members appointed from among private citizens of the United States or who are Members of Congress or Federal Judges may, subject to the availability of funds, be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707). 
(c) The Attorney General shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Commission with such administrative services, funds, facilities, staff and other support services as may be necessary for the performance of its functions. 
Sec. 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, except that of reporting to the Congress, which are applicable to the Commission, shall be performed by the Attorney General, in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
(b) The Commission shall, unless otherwise extended, terminate two years from the date of this Order.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
July 28, 1983. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:26 p.m., July 28, 1983]