By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory committee on private sector initiatives, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the President's Advisory Council on Private Sector Initiatives. The Council shall be composed of not more than 39 members, to be appointed or designated by the President. The members shall be selected as follows: 
(1) Nine members from the public sector, consisting of the Secretaries of Agriculture, Commerce, Housing and Urban Development, Health and Human Services, Labor, Education, and Transportation, the Director of ACTION, and the White House Deputy Chief of Staff.
(2) Thirty members from private life. 
(b) The President shall designate a Chairman and Vice Chairman from among the members of the Council. The Special Assistant to the President for Private Sector Initiatives shall serve as Secretary to the Council. 
Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Council shall advise the President, through the White House Office of Private Sector Initiatives, with respect to the objectives and conduct of private sector initiative policies, including methods of increasing public awareness of the importance of public/private partnerships; removing barriers to development of effective social service programs which are administered by private organizations; and strengthening the professional resources of the private social service sector. 
(b) The Council shall seek the advice, ideas and recommendations of the White House Office of Private Sector Initiatives and such other government offices as the President may deem appropriate in order to fulfill its responsibilities under this Order. 
(c) In performance of its advisory responsibilities, the Council shall report to the President from time to time as requested. 
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Council such information with respect to private sector initiative issues as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions. 
(b) Members of the Council shall serve without compensation for their work on the Council. However, members appointed from among private citizens of the United States shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707). 
(c) The White House Office shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide the Council with such administrative services, facilities, staff, and other support services as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions. 
Sec. 4, General. The Council shall terminate two years from the date of this Order, unless sooner extended.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
June 27, 1983. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 2:42 p.m., June 28, 1983]