By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, and in order to coordinate and implement policies with respect to management reform in the Federal government, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment of the President's Council on Management Improvement. 
(a) There is established as an interagency committee the President's Council on Management Improvement. 
(b) The Council shall be composed of the following members: 
(1) The Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget, who shall be Chairman of the Council; 
(2) The Assistant Secretary for Administration, Department of Agriculture; 
(3) The Assistant Secretary for Administration, Department of Commerce; 
(4) The Assistant Secretary (Comptroller), Department of Defense; 
(5) The Deputy Under Secretary for Management, Department of Education; 
(6) The Assistant Secretary for Management and Administration, Department of Energy; 
(7) The Assistant Secretary for Management and Budget, Department of Health and Human Services; 
(8) The Assistant Secretary for Administration, Department of Housing and Urban Development; 
(9) The Assistant Secretary for Policy, Budget and Administration, Department of the Interior; 
(10) The Assistant Attorney General for Administration, Department of Justice; 
(11) The Assistant Secretary for Administration and Management, Department of Labor; 
(12) The Assistant Secretary for Administration, Department of State; 
(13) The Assistant Secretary for Administration, Department of Transportation; 
(14) The Assistant Secretary for Administration, Department of the Treasury; 
(15) The Assistant to the Administrator for Management, Agency for International Development; 
(16) The Assistant Administrator for Administration and Resources Management, Environmental Protection Agency; 
(17) The Deputy Administrator, General Services Administration; 
(18) The Associate Administrator for Management, National Aeronautics and Space Administration; 
(19) The Associate Director for Management, Office of Management and Budget; 
(20) The Associate Director for Administration, Office of Personnel Management; 
(21) The Associate Deputy Administrator for Resource Management, Small Business Administration; 
(22) The Associate Deputy Administrator for Information and Resources Management, Veterans' Administration; 
(23) The Assistant to the President for Policy Development, or a Federal employee designated by that official, to advise on management and administration; and 
(24) The Assistant to the President for Presidential Personnel, or a Federal employee designated by that official, to advise on human resource development. 
Sec. 2. Functions of the Council. The Council shall: 
(a) develop and oversee the implementation of improved management and administrative systems for government-wide application; 
(b) formulate long-range plans to promote improvements in the management and administrative systems of the Federal government; 
(c) identify specific department and agency management reforms applicable to other agencies and assist in their implementation; 
(d) work to resolve interagency management problems; and 
(e) work with the Office of Management and Budget, the General Services Administration and the Office of Personnel Management to ensure timely implementation and coordination of their policies. 
In conducting these functions, the Council shall not interfere with existing lines of authority and responsibility in the departments and agencies. 
Sec. 3. Responsibilities of the Chairman. The Chairman shall: 
(a) establish, in consultation with the members of the Council, procedures for the Council and establish the agenda for Council activities; 
(b) On behalf of the Council, report to the President; the goals and the results of the Council on management projects shall be reported to the President through the Cabinet Council on Management and Administration; the Chairman shall advise the Council with respect to the reaction of the President and the Cabinet Council to its activities; 
(c) provide agency heads with summary reports of the activities of the Council; 
(d) establish such committees of the Council, including an executive committee, as may be deemed necessary or appropriate for the efficient conduct of Council functions; committees of the Council may act for the Council in those areas that affect the membership of the committee; 
(e) appoint Vice-Chairmen to one-year terms to assist the Chairman in representing the Council and perform duties as determined by the Chairman; 
(f) appoint other Federal officials as at-large members to one-year terms to provide special expertise to the Council and perform duties as determined by the Chairman; and 
(g) be supported by the Associate Director for Management of the Office of Management and Budget, who shall advise and assist the Chairman in the execution of the entire range of responsibilities set forth above and act for the Chairman in his absence.
Sec. 4. Administrative Provisions. 
(a) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall provide the Council with such administrative support as may be necessary for the performance of its functions. 
(b) The head of each agency represented on the Council shall provide its representative with such administrative support as may be necessary, in accordance with law, to enable the agency representative to carry out his or her responsibilities.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
May 24, 1984. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:47 p. m., May 24, 1984]