By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, and in order to enhance the security of the United States by improving the quality and effectiveness of intelligence available to the United States, it is ordered as follows: 
Section 1. There is hereby established within the White House Office, Executive Office of the President, the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board (the "Board"). The Board shall consist of not more than fourteen members, who shall serve at the pleasure of the President and shall be appointed by the President from among trustworthy and distinguished citizens outside the government who are qualified on the basis of achievement, experience, and independence. The President shall establish the terms of the members upon their appointment. To the extent practicable, one-third of the Board at any one time shall be comprised of members whose current term of service does not exceed two years. The President shall designate a Chairman and Vice Chairman from among the members. The Board shall utilize full-time staff and consultants as authorized by the President. Such staff shall be headed by an Executive Director, appointed by the President. 
Sec. 2. The Board shall assess the quality, quantity, and adequacy of intelligence collection, of analysis and estimates, of counterintelligence, and other intelligence activities. The Board shall have the authority to continually review the performance of all agencies of the Federal government that are engaged in the collection, evaluation, or production of intelligence or the execution of intelligence policy. The Board shall further be authorized to assess the adequacy of management, personnel, and organization in the intelligence agencies. 
Sec. 3. The Board shall report directly to the President and advise him concerning the objectives, conduct, management, and coordination of the various activities of the agencies of the intelligence community. The Board shall report periodically, but at least semiannually, concerning findings and appraisals and shall make appropriate recommendations for actions to improve and enhance the performance of the intelligence efforts of the United States. 
Sec. 4. The Board shall receive, consider, and recommend appropriate action with respect to matters, identified to the Board by the Director of Central Intelligence, the Central Intelligence Agency, or other government agencies engaged in intelligence or related activities, in which the support of the Board will further the effectiveness of the national intelligence effort. With respect to matters deemed appropriate by the President, the Board shall advise and make recommendations to the Director of Central Intelligence, the Central Intelligence Agency, and other government agencies engaged in intelligence and related activities, concerning ways to achieve increased effectiveness in meeting national intelligence needs. 
Sec. 5. The Board shall have access to the full extent permitted by applicable law to all information necessary to carry out its duties in the possession of any agency of the Federal government. Information made available to the Board shall be given all necessary security protection in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. Each member of the Board, each member of the Board's staff, and each of the Board's consultants shall execute an agreement never to reveal any classified information obtained by virtue of his or her service with the Board except to the President or to such persons as the President may designate. 
Sec. 6. Members of the Board shall serve without compensation, but may receive transportation, expenses, and per diem allowance as authorized by law. Staff and consultants to the Board shall receive pay and allowances as authorized by the President. 
Sec. 7. Executive Order No. 12331 of October 20, 1981 is revoked.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
October 28, 1985. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:41 a.m., October 29, 1985]