Establishing an Emergency Board To Investigate Disputes Between Certain Railroads Represented by the National Carriers' Conference Committee of the National Railway Labor Conference and Their Employees Represented by Certain Labor Organizations 
Disputes exist between certain railroads represented by the National Carriers' Conference Committee of the National Railway Labor Conference and their employees represented by certain organizations designated on the lists attached hereto and made a part hereof. 
These disputes have not heretofore been adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended (the "Act"). 
The disputes, in the judgment of the National Mediation Board, threaten substantially to interrupt interstate commerce to a degree such as to deprive a section of the country of essential transportation service. 
Now, Therefore, by the authority vested in me by Section 10 of the Act, as amended (45 U.S.C. ยง 160), it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment of Board. There is established, effective July 15, 1986, a board of three members to be appointed by the President to investigate the disputes. No member shall be pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of railroad employees or any carrier. The board shall perform its functions subject to the availability of funds. 
Sec. 2. Report. The board shall report its findings to the President with respect to these disputes within 30 days from the effective date of this Order. 
Sec. 3. Maintaining Conditions. As provided by Section 10 of the Railway Labor Act, as amended, from the date of the establishment of the board and for 30 days after the board has made its report to the President, no change, except by agreement of the parties, shall be made by the carriers or the employees in the conditions out of which the disputes arose. 
Sec. 4. Expiration. The board shall terminate upon the submission of the report provided for in Section 2 of this Order.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
July 15, 1986. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:12 a.m., July 16, 1986]