By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, including the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), and in order to create an advisory commission to investigate the spread of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and the resultant acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) in the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the Presidential Commission on the Human Immunodeficiency Virus Epidemic to investigate the spread of the HIV and the resultant AIDS. The Commission shall be composed of 11 members appointed or designated by the President. The members shall be distinguished individuals who have experience in such relevant disciplines as medicine, epidemiology, virology, law, insurance, education, and public health. 
(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the Commission. 
Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Commission shall advise the President, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and other relevant Cabinet heads on the public health dangers including the medical, legal, ethical, social, and economic impact, from the spread of the HIV and resulting illnesses including AIDS, AIDS-related complex, and other related conditions. 
(b) The primary focus of the Commission shall be to recommend measures that Federal, State, and local officials can take to (1) protect the public from contracting the HIV; (2) assist in finding a cure for AIDS; and (3) care for those who already have the disease. 
(c) In particular, the Commission shall (1) evaluate efforts by educational institutions and other public and private entities to provide education and information concerning AIDS; (2) analyze the efforts currently underway by Federal, State, and local authorities to combat AIDS; (3) examine long-term impact of AIDS treatment needs on the health care delivery system, including the effect on non-AIDS patients in need of medical care; (4) review the United States history of dealing with communicable disease epidemics; (5) evaluate research activities relating to the prevention and treatment of AIDS; (6) identify future areas of research that might be needed to address the AIDS epidemic; (7) examine policies for development and release of drugs and vaccines to combat AIDS; (8) assess the progression of AIDS among the general population and among specific risk groups; (9) study legal and ethical issues relating to AIDS; and (10) review the role of the United States in the international AIDS pandemic. 
(d) The Commission shall make a preliminary report to the President not later than 90 days after the date the members of the Commission are first appointed or designated. The Commission shall submit its final report no later than 1 year from the date of this Order. 
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive departments and agencies, to the extent permitted by law, shall provide the Commission, upon request, with such information as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions. 
(b) Members of the Commission may receive compensation for their work on the Commission at the daily rate specified for GS-18 of the General Schedule. While engaged in the work of the Commission, members appointed from among private citizens of the United States, to the extent funds are available, may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707). 
(c) The Office of the Secretary of Health and Human Services, subject to the availability of appropriations, shall provide the Commission with such administrative services , funds, facilities, staff, and other support services as may be necessary for the performance of its functions. The heads of other Executive departments and agencies, to the extent permitted by law, shall cooperate with the Commission and provide such personnel and administrative support as may be necessary for the performance of its functions. 
Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) The functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting annually to the Congress, which are applicable to the Commission, shall be performed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
(b) The Commission, unless sooner extended, shall terminate 30 days after submitting its final report to the President.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
June 24, 1987. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:14 p.m., June 25, 1987]