By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended an advisory committee on the Points of Light Initiative, a foundation to be established to foster and promote community service, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. 
Establishment.
 (a) There is established the President's Advisory Committee on the Points of Light Initiative Foundation ("Committee"). The Committee shall be composed of not more than five members to be appointed by the President. 
(b) The President shall appoint a Chairman and Vice Chairman from among the members of the Committee. 
Sec. 2. 
Functions.
 The Coommittee shall advise the President, by written report to be submitted within forty-five (45) days of the Committee's first meeting, with respect to the legal structure of the Points of Light Initiative Foundation and the legislation needed to establish the Foundation. 
Sec. 3. 
Administration. 
(a) The Director of the Office of National Service in the Executive Office of the President and the heads of executive agencies shall provide, to the extent permitted by law, the Committee with such information with respect to community service issues and such other support as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions under this order. 
(b) Members of the Committee shall serve without compensation for their work on the Committee. However, members appointed from among private citizens of the United States shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in Government service -5707). 
(c) The Office of National Service in the Executive Office of the President shall provide, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, the Committee with administrative services, funds, and other support services as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions hereunder. 
(d) Notwithstanding any other executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, except that of reporting to the Congress, which are applicable to the Committee, shall be performed by the Director of the Office of National Service, in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
Sec. 4. 
General.
 The term of the Committee shall expire on June 30, 1991, unless sooner extended. 
George Bush
The White House,
September 23, 1989.