By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, and in order to establish a Commission on Aviation Security and Terrorism, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. 
Establishment.
 (a) There is established the President's Commission on Aviation Security and Terrorism to review and evaluate policy options in connection with aviation security, with particular reference to the destruction on December 21, 1988, of Pan American World Airways Flight 103. The Commission shall consist of seven members appointed by the President. Two members shall be Senators, and two shall be Members of the House of Representatives; they shall represent both parties equally. The President shall consult with the Majority and Republican Leaders of the Senate and the Speaker and Minority Leader of the House of Representatives in making appointments from the Senate and House of Representatives, respectively. 
(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the Commission. 
Sec. 2. 
Functions.
 (a) The Commission shall conduct a comprehensive study and appraisal of practices and policy options with respect to preventing terrorist acts involving aviation. In conducting this effort, the Commission shall evaluate the adequacy of existing procedures for aviation security, compliance therewith, and enforcement thereof. The Commission also shall review options for handling terrorist threats, including prior notification to the public. Further, the Commission shall investigate practices, policies, and laws with respect to the treatment of families of victims of terrorist acts. 
(b) Within 6 months of the date of this order, the Commission shall submit a report to the President, which shall be classified if necessary, containing findings and recommendations. If the Commission's report is classified, an unclassified version shall be prepared for public distribution. 
Sec. 3.
 Administration.
 (a) To the extent permitted by law and fully protecting intelligence sources and methods and the ongoing investigations into the destruction of Pan American World Airways Flight 103 of December 21, 1988, the heads of executive departments, agencies, and independent instrumentalities shall provide the Commission, upon request, with such information as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions. 
(b) Members of the Commission appointed from among private citizens may receive compensation for their work on the Commission at the daily rate specified for GS-18 of the General Schedule. While engaged in the work of the Commission, members appointed from among private citizens of the United States may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service -5707). 
(c) To the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations, the Department of Transportation shall, among other Administrative functions, provide the Commission with administrative services, funds, facilities, staff, and other support services necessary for the performance of its functions, and the Secretary of Transportation shall perform the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended except that of reporting to the Congress, in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
(d) The Commission shall adhere to the requirements set forth in the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended. All executive branch officials assigned duties by the Federal Advisory Committee Act shall comply with its requirements with respect to this Commission. 
Sec. 4.
 General Provision.
 The Commission shall terminate 30 days after submitting its report to the President. 
George Bush
The White House,
August 4, 1989.