By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, including section 203 of the Ethics Reform Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-194), and in order to establish an advisory commission to study the best means of simplifying the Presidential appointment process, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. 
Establishment.
 (a) There is hereby established the "President's Commission on the Federal Appointment Process" ("Commission"). The Commission shall comprise 14 members from among officers and employees of the three branches of the Federal Government. Eight members shall be appointed by the President, two members shall be appointed by the majority leader of the Senate, two members shall be appointed by the minority leader of the Senate, one member shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and one member shall be appointed by the minority leader of the House of Representatives. Any vacancy on the Commission shall be filled in the same manner as the initial appointment. 
(b) The President shall select a Chairman for the Commission from among the eight members that he appoints. 
(c) The Chairman shall select a Federal employee to serve as Executive Director for the Commission. 
Sec. 2. 
Functions.
 (a) The Commission shall advise the President on the best means of simplifying the Presidential appointment process through reducing the number and complexity of forms to be completed by Presidential nominees. The Commission shall give special attention to: (i) achieving coordination between forms required in the executive branch clearance process and forms required by Senate Committees for confirmation hearings; and (ii) identification of opportunities for the Office of Government Ethics to simplify the SF-278 Executive Disclosure Report and its instructions, pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as amended. 
(b) The Commission, through its Chairman, shall present its report to the President no later than 90 days after its first meeting. 
Sec. 3. 
Administration.
 (a) The heads of executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Chairman of the Commission with such information concerning the Presidential appointment process as the Chairman deems required for the purpose of carrying out the Commission's functions. 
(b) To the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary of Commerce shall provide the Commission with administrative services, staff support, and necessary expenses. 
(c) The Commisison shall cease to exist upon submission of the report referenced in Section 2(b) of this order. 
George Bush
The White House,
July 11, 1990.