By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954, as amended by Public Law 101-624 ("Agricultural Trade Development Act"), the Food for Progress Act of 1985, as amended by Public Law 101-624 ("Food for Progress Act"), and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. 
Establishment of Programs. 
There is hereby established: 
(a) a program under title I of the Agricultural Trade Development Act to provide for the sale of agricultural commodities to developing countries. Such program shall be implemented by the Secretary of Agriculture (hereafter referred to as the "Secretary"). 
(b) a program under title II of the Agricultural Trade Development Act to provide for the donation of agricultural commodities to foreign countries. Such program shall be implemented by the Administrator of the Agency for International Development (hereafter referred to as the "Administrator"). 
(c) a program under title III of the Agricultural Trade Development Act to provide for the donation of agricultural commodities to least developed countries. Such program shall be implemented by the Administrator. 
Sec. 2. 
International Negotiations and Accounting for Foreign Currencies. 
(a) The Secretary with respect to title I, and the Administrator with respect to titles II and III of the Agricultural Trade Development Act, shall negotiate and execute agreements under the Agricultural Trade Development Act in accord with section 112b of title I of the United States Code and applicable regulations and procedures of the Department of State. 
(b)(1) Foreign currencies that accrue to the United States under titles I and III of the Agricultural Trade Development Act may be used for the purposes set forth in section 104 and section 306 of that Act, respectively, in amounts consistent with applicable provisions of law and agreements. Such foreign currencies shall be subject to regulations of the Department of the Treasury governing the purchase, custody, deposit, transfer, and sale of foreign currencies received under the Agricultural Trade Development Act. 
(2) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget (hereafter referred to as the "Director") shall determine the amount of foreign currencies to be used for the purposes of section 104(c)(8) of the Agricultural Trade Development Act, and such purposes shall be carried out by the agencies with authority to pay the obligations abroad. The purposes of the remaining paragraphs of section 104(c) of that Act shall be carried out by the Department of Agriculture, utilizing, where appropriate, the expertise of other agencies. 
(3) The Secretary and Administrator shall transmit the reports required by the provisions of paragraph 5 of the Act of August 13, 1957 (71 Stat. 345; as related to the use of foreign currencies accruing under title I and title III of the Agricultural Trade Development Act, respectively. 
Sec. 3. 
Policy Coordination. 
(a) To ensure policy coordination of assistance provided under the Agricultural Trade Development Act and the Food for Progress Act, there is hereby established a Food Assistance Policy Council (hereafter referred to as the "Council"). 
(b) The Council will include senior representatives of the Department of Agriculture, the Agency for International Development, the Department of State, and the Office of Management and Budget. Meetings of the Council shall be called by the Secretary or his designee at the request of any senior representative of the Council. 
(c) The Council shall advise the President on appropriate policies under the Agricultural Trade Development Act and the Food for Progress Act and shall coordinate decisions on allocations and other policy issues, as well as prepare the report required by section 407(g)(1) of the Agricultural Trade Development Act. 
(d) As necessary for effective coordination, the Council shall provide its advice to the President through the appropriate Cabinet-level body. 
Sec. 4. 
Delegation of Responsibilities. 
(a) The consultation required by section 401(a) of the Agricultural Trade Development Act shall be undertaken through the Council. 
(b) The function conferred upon the President in section 403(j) of the Agricultural Trade Development Act is hereby delegated to the Secretary of State. 
(c) The function conferred upon the President by section 407(h) of the Agricultural Trade Development Act is hereby delegated to the Administrator. 
(d) The functions conferred upon the President by section 411 of the Agricultural Trade Development Act are hereby delegated to the Secretary, in consultation with the Council and the Department of the Treasury. 
(e) The functions conferred upon the President by section 412(c) of the Agricultural Trade Development Act are hereby delegated to the Director, who shall consult with the Council on these functions. 
(f) The functions conferred upon the President by title V of the Agricultural Trade Development Act are hereby delegated to the Administrator. 
(g) The functions conferred upon the President by the Food for Progress Act, as amended, are hereby delegated to the Secretary. 
Sec. 5. 
Regulatory Review. 
Policies, regulations, and analyses required by this Executive order shall be fully consistent with the standards and criteria, analyses and procedures set forth in Executive Order Nos. 12291 and 12498. 
Sec. 6. 
Revocations. 
Executive Order No. 12220 of June 27, 1980, and Executive Order No. 12583 of February 19, 1987, are revoked. 
George Bush
The White House,
February 25, 1991.