By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including and 9501, and it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 101. 
Policy. 
The United States must have the capability to rapidly mobilize its resources in the interest of national security. Therefore, to achieve prompt delivery of articles, products, and materials to meet national security requirements, the Government may place orders and require priority performance of these orders. 
Sec. 102. 
Delegation of Authority under 
 
(a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this section, the authorities vested in the President, under with respect to the placing of orders for prompt delivery of articles or materials, except for the taking authority under (c), are hereby delegated to: 
(1) The Secretary of Agriculture with respect to all food resources; 
(2)the Secretary of Energy with respect to all forms of energy; 
(3) the Secretary of Transportation with respect to all forms of civil transportation; and 
(4) the Secretary of Commerce with respect to all other articles and materials, including construction materials. 
(b) The authorities delegated by paragraph (a) of this section shall be exercised only after: 
(1) a determination by the Secretary of Defense that prompt delivery of the articles or materials for the exclusive use of the armed forces of the United States is in the interest of national security, or 
(2) a determination by the Secretary of Energy that the prompt delivery of the articles or materials for the Department of Energy's atomic energy programs is in the interest of national security. 
(c) All determinations of the type described in paragraph (b) of this section and all delgations -- made prior to the effective date of this order under the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended, and under its implementing rules and regulations -- shall be continued in effect, including but not limited to approved programs listed under the Defense Priorities and ALlocations System (15 CFR Part 700). 
Sec. 103. 
Delegation of Authority under and 9501, and 
 
(a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this section, the authorities vested in the President under and 9501 with respect to the placing of orders for necessary products or materials, and under with respect to the placing of orders for ships or war materials, except for the taking authority vested in the President by these acts, are hereby delegated to: 
(1) the Secretary of Agriculture with respect to all food resources; 
(2) the Secretary of Energy with respect to all forms of energy; 
(3) the Secretary of Transportation with respect to all forms of civil transportation; and 
(4) the Secretary of Commerce with respect to all other products and materials, including construction materials. 
(b) The authorities delegated in paragraph (a) of this section may be exercised only after the President has made the statutorily required determination. 
Sec. 104. 
Implementation. 
(a) The authorities delegated under sections 102 and 103 of this order shall include the power to redelegate such authorities, and the power of successive redelegation of such authorities, to departments and agencies, officers, and employees of the Government. The authorities delegated in this order may be implemented by regulations promulgated and administered by the Secretaries of Agriculture, Defense, Energy, Transportation, and Commerce, and the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, as appropriate. 
(b) All departments and agencies delegated authority under this order are hereby directed to amend their rules and regulations as necessary to reflect the new authorities delegated herein that are to be relied upon to carry out their functions. To the extent authorized by alw, including and 9501, and all rules and regulations issued under the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended, with respect to the placing of priority orders for articles, products, ships, and materials, including war materials, shall be deemed, where appropriate, to implement the authorities delegated by sections 102 and 103 of this order, and shall remain in effect until amended or revoked by the respective Secretary. All orders, regualtions, and other forms of administrative actions purported to have been issued, taken, or continued in effect pursuant to the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended, shall, until amended or revoked by the respective Secretaries or the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, as appropriate, remain in full force and effect, to the extent supported by any law or any authority delegated to the respective Secretary or the Director pursuant to this order. 
(c) Upon the request of the Secretary of Defense with respect to particular articles, products, or materials that are determined to be needed to meet national security requirements, any other official receiving a delegation of authority under this Executive order to place orders or to enforce precedence of such orders, shall exercise such authroity within 10 calendar days of the receipt of the request; provided, that if the head of any department or agency having delegated responsibilities hereunder disagrees with a request of the Secretary of Defense, such department or agency head shall, within 10 calendar days from the receipt of the request, refer the issue to the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, who shall ensure expeditious resolution of the issue. 
(d) Proposed department and agency regulations and procedures to implement the delegated authority under this order, and any new determinations made under sections 102(b)(1) or (2), shall be coordinated by the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency with all appropriate departments and agencies. 
Sec. 105. 
Judicial Review. 
This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against the United States, its agencies, its officers, or any person. 
George Bush
The White House,
January 8, 1991.