By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to coordinate and implement policies with respect to management improvement in the Federal Government, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. 
Establishment and Membership of the President's Council on Management Improvement. 
 
(a) There is established as an interagency committee the President's Council on Management Improvement ("Council"). 
(b) The Council shall be composed of the Deputy Director for Management of the Office of Management and Budget, who shall serve as Chairman, and one senior official, who is a full-time officer or employee of the Federal Government and who is responsible for management or administration, from each of the following agencies as selected by the heads of those agencies: 
 (1) Department of State; 
 (2) Department of the Treasury; 
 (3) Department of Defense; 
 (4) Department of Justice; 
 (5) Department of the Interior; 
 (6) Department of Agriculture; 
 (7) Department of Commerce; 
 (8) Department of Labor; 
 (9) Department of Health and Human Services; 
 (10) Department of Housing and Urban Development; 
 (11) Department of Transportation; 
 (12) Department of Energy; 
 (13) Department of Education; 
 (14) Department of Veterans Affairs; 
 (15) Agency for International Development; 
 (16) Environmental Protection Agency; 
 (17) Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; 
 (18) Federal Communications Commission; 
 (19) Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; 
 (20) Federal Emergency Management Agency; 
 (21) Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; 
 (22) Federal Reserve Board; 
 (23) General Services Administration; 
 (24) Interstate Commerce Commission; 
 (25) National Aeronautics and Space Administration; 
 (26) National Archives and Records Administration; 
 (27) Nuclear Regulatory Commission; 
 (28) Office of Personnel Management; 
 (29) Resolution Trust Corporation; 
 (30) Securities and Exchange Commission; 
 (31) Small Business Administration; 
 (32) Tennessee Valley Authority; and 
 (33) United States Information Agency. 
(c) The Council membership also shall include the following officials: 
 (1) Deputy Director, Office of Personnel Management; 
 (2) Deputy Administrator, General Services Administration; 
 (3) Assistant to the President for Policy Development or a full-time officer or employee of the Federal Government designated by that official; 
 (4) Assistant to the President for Presidential Personnel or a full-time officer or employee of the Federal Government designated by that official; 
 (5) Assistant Director for General Management, Office of Management and Budget; and 
 (6) At-large members appointed by the Chairman pursuant to section 3(e) of this order. 
(d) The Council shall have a Vice Chairman selected by the Chairman from among the Council membership. 
Sec. 2. 
Functions of the Council. 
 
(a) The Council shall serve as an interagency forum to discuss problems and recommend improvements in Government management and operations and to provide advice to the Chairman on matters pertaining to the management of the Federal Government. The Council shall: 
 (1) assist in the formulation of short- and long-range plans to promote improvements in the management and administrative systems and operations of the Federal Government; 
 (2) identify specific department and agency management solutions that may have Governmentwide application and assist in the dissemination of this information and the implementation of these solutions; 
 (3) serve as a resource to assist in an advisory capacity in the development, review, revision, and implementation of Governmentwide policies in support of the central management agencies of the Federal Government, including the Office of Management and Budget, the Office of Personnel Management, and the General Services Administration; and 
 (4) serve as a forum to recommend solutions to interagency management problems. 
(b) In conducting these functions, the Council shall not interfere with existing lines of authority and responsibility in the departments and agencies. 
Sec. 3. 
Responsibilities of the Chairman.
 The Chairman shall: 
(a) establish, in consultation with the Council membership as he deems appropriate, procedures and agenda topics for the Council; 
(b) report, on behalf of the Council and as appropriate, to the President, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the agency heads, and the Cabinet on the goals and accomplishments of the Council; 
(c) establish such committees or working groups of the Council, including an executive committee, as the Chairman may find necessary or appropriate for the efficient conduct of Council functions; 
(d) appoint a Vice Chairman from among the Council's membership to assist the Chairman in representing the Council and to perform duties as determined by the Chairman; 
(e) appoint other full-time officers or employees of the Federal Government to the Council as at-large members for specific terms to provide special expertise to the Council and to perform duties as determined by the Chairman; and 
(f) be supported by the Assistant Director for General Management of the Office of Management and Budget, who shall advise and assist the Chairman in the execution of the responsibilities set forth above and act for the Chairman in his or her absence. 
Sec. 4. 
Administrative Provisions. 
 
(a) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall provide the Council with administrative support as may be necessary for the performance of its functions. 
(b) To the extent permitted by law, the head of each agency represented on the Council shall provide its representative with such administrative support as necessary to enable the agency representative to carry out his or her responsibilities and to support the Governmentwide activities of the Council. 
Sec. 5. 
Revocation. 
Executive Order No. 12479 is revoked. 
George Bush
The White House,
October 14, 1992.