By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States, it is ordered of follows; 
Section 1. 
Presidential Service Certificate. 
The Presidential Service Certificate ("Certificate") is hereby continued, the design of which accompanies and is hereby made a part of this order. The Certificate shall be awarded in the name of the Presidential of the United States by the Secretary of the Army, The Secretary of the Navy, the Secretary of the Air Force, or, when the Coast Guard is not operating as a service in the Navy, the Secretary of Transportation. It shall be awarded by the appropriate Secretary to members of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, Coast Guard, respectively, who have been assigned to the White House Office; to military units and support facilities under the administration of the White House Military Office; or to other direct support positions within the Executive Office of the President ("EOP"). The Certificate shall not be issued to any member who is issued a Vice Presidential Certificate, or similar EOP Certificate, for the same period of service. Such assignment must be for a period of at least one year, subsequent to January 21, 1989. 
Sec. 2. 
Presidential Service Badge. 
The Presidential Service Badge ("Badge") is hereby continued, the design of which accompanies and is hereby made a part of this order. The Badge shall be awarded to those members of the Armed Forces who have been granted the Certificate and shall be awarded in the same manner in which the Certificate has been given. The Badge shall be worn as a part of the uniform of those individuals under such regulations as their respective Secretaries may severally prescribe. 
Sec. 3. Only one Certificate may be awarded to an individual. 
Sec. 4. The Certificate and the Badge may be granted posthumously. 
Sec. 5. This order shall supersede Executive Order No. 10879 of June 1, 1960, as amended. 
George Bush
The White House,
March 20, 1992.