By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, in order to advance the development of human potential, to strengthen the capacity of historically Black colleges and universities to provide quality education, and to increase opportunities to participate in and benefit from Federal programs, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. There shall be established in the Department of Education the President’s Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities ("Board of Advisors" or "Board"), a Presidential advisory committee. The Board of Advisors shall issue an annual report to the President on participation by historically Black colleges and universities in federally sponsored programs. The Board of Advisors will also provide advice to the Secretary of Education ("Secretary") and in the annual report to the President on how to increase the private sector role in strengthening historically Black colleges and universities, with particular emphasis on enhancing institutional infrastructure and facilitating planning, development, and the use of new technologies to ensure the goal of long-term viability and enhancement of these institutions. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the responsibilities of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. 2), which is applicable to the Board of Advisors, shall be performed by the Secretary, in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services.
Sec. 2. The members of the Board of Advisors shall be appointed by the President. The Board shall include representatives of historically Black colleges and universities, other institutions of higher education, business and financial institutions, private foundations, and secondary education.
Sec. 3. The White House Initiative on Historically Black Colleges and Universities, housed in the Department of Education, shall: (1) provide the staff, resources, and assistance for the Board of Advisors; (2) assist the Secretary in the role of liaison between the executive branch and historically Black colleges and universities; and (3) serve the Secretary in carrying out his responsibilities under this order.
Sec. 4. To carry out the purposes of this order, each executive department and each agency designated by the Secretary shall, consistent with applicable law, enter into appropriate grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements with historically Black colleges and universities. The head of each agency subject to this order shall establish an annual goal for the amount of funds to be awarded in grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements to historically Black colleges and universities. Consistent with the funds available to the agency, the goal shall be an amount above the actual amount of such awards from the previous fiscal year and shall represent a substantial effort to increase the amounts available to historically Black colleges and universities for grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements. In order to facilitate the attainment of the goals established by this section, the head of each agency subject to this order shall provide technical assistance and information to historically Black colleges and universities regarding the program activities of the agency and the preparation of applications or proposals for grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements.
Sec. 5. Each executive department and designated agency shall appoint a senior official, who is a full-time officer of the Federal Government and who is responsible for management or program administration, to report directly to the department or agency head or designated agency representative on department or agency activity under this order and to serve as liaison to the Board and White House Initiative. To the extent permitted by law and regulation, each executive department and designated agency shall provide appropriate information requested by the Board and the White House Initiative staff pursuant to this order.
Sec. 6. Each executive department and designated agency shall develop an annual plan for, and shall document, the agency’s effort to increase the ability of historically Black colleges and universities to participate in federally sponsored programs. These plans shall describe the measurable objectives for proposed agency actions to fulfill this order and shall be submitted at such time and in such form as the Secretary shall designate. In consultation with participating agencies, the Secretary shall review these plans and develop, with the advice of the Board of Advisors, an integrated Annual Federal Plan for Assistance to Historically Black Colleges and Universities for consideration by the President. The Secretary shall ensure that each president of a historically Black college or university is given the opportunity to comment on the proposed Annual Federal Plan prior to consideration by the President. Each participating agency shall submit to the Secretary and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, an Annual Performance Report that shall measure each agency’s performance against the objectives set forth in its annual plan. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall be responsible for overseeing compliance with the Annual Federal Plan.
Sec. 7. Each year the Board of Advisors shall report to the President on the progress achieved in enhancing the role and capabilities of historically Black colleges and universities, including findings and recommendations on the Annual Performance Reports, described in Section 6, submitted by the participating agencies. The Secretary shall disseminate the annual report to appropriate members of the executive branch and make every effort to ensure that findings of the Board of Advisors are taken into account in the policies and actions of every executive agency.
Sec. 8. The Department of Education, along with other Federal departments or agencies, shall work to encourage the private sector to assist historically Black colleges and universities through increased use of such devices and activities as: (1) private sector matching funds to support increased endowments; (2) private sector task forces for institutions in need of assistance; and (3) private sector expertise to facilitate the development of more effective ways to manage finances, improve information management, strengthen facilities, and improve course offerings. These steps will be taken with the goals of enhancing the career prospects of graduates of historically Black colleges and universities and increasing the number of such graduates with degrees in science and technology.
Sec. 9. In all its recommendations, the Board of Advisors shall emphasize ways to support the long-term development plans of each historically Black college and university. The Board of Advisors shall recommend alternative sources of faculty talent, particularly in the fields of science and technology, including faculty exchanges and referrals from other institutions of higher education, private sector retirees, Federal employees and retirees, and emeritus faculty members at other institutions of higher education.
Sec. 10. The Board of Advisors, through the White House Initiative, shall provide advice on how historically Black colleges and universities can achieve greater financial security. To the maximum extent possible, the Board of Advisors shall consider how such institutions can enlist the resources and experience of the private sector to achieve such security.
Sec. 11. The Director of the Office of Personnel Management, in consultation with the Secretary and the Secretary of Labor, shall develop a program
to improve recruitment and participation of graduates and undergraduate students of historically Black colleges and universities in part-time, summer and permanent positions in the Federal Government.
Sec. 12. Administration: (a) Members of the Board of Advisors shall serve without compensation, but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service, (5 U.S.C. 5701–5707).
(b) The Board of Advisors and the White House Initiative shall obtain funding for their activities from the Department of Education.
(c) The Department of Education shall provide such administrative services
for the Board as may be required.
Sec. 13. Executive Order No. 12677 of April 28, 1989, is hereby revoked.
William J. Clinton
THE WHITE HOUSE,
November 1, 1993.