Disputes exist between Metro North Commuter Railroad and certain of its employees represented by certain labor organizations. The labor organizations involved in these disputes are designated on the attached list, which is made a part of this order.
The disputes have not heretofore been adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended (45 U.S.C. 151 et seq.) (the "Act").
A party empowered by the Act has requested that the President establish an emergency board pursuant to section 9A of the Act (45 U.S.C. 159a).
Section 9A(c) of the Act provides that the President, upon such request, shall appoint an emergency board to investigate and report on the disputes.
Now, Therefore, by the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 9A of the Act, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment of the Board. There is established effective February 22, 1995, a board of three members to be appointed by the President to investigate these disputes. No member shall be pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of railroad employees or any carrier. The board shall perform its functions subject to the availability of funds.
Sec. 2. Report. The board shall report to the President with respect to the disputes within 30 days of its creation.
Sec. 3. Maintaining Conditions. As provided by section 9A(c) of the Act, from the date of the creation of the board and for 120 days thereafter, no change, except by agreement of the parties, shall be made by the carrier or the employees in the conditions out of which the disputes arose.
Sec. 4. Records Maintenance. The records and files of the board are records of the Office of the President and upon the board's termination shall be maintained in the physical custody of the National Mediation Board.
Sec. 5. Expiration. The board shall terminate upon submission of the report provided for in section 2 of this order.
William J. Clinton
The White House,
February 22, 1995.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 3:09 p.m., February 23, 1995]