A dispute exists between certain railroads represented by the National Railway Labor Conference and their employees represented by the Transportation Communications International Union. The railroads involved in this dispute are designated on the attached list, which is made a part of this order.
This dispute has not heretofore been adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended (45 U.S.C. 151 et seq.) (the "Act").
In the judgment of the National Mediation Board, this dispute threatens substantially to interrupt interstate commerce to a degree that would deprive a section of the country of essential transportation service.
Now, Therefore, by the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, including section 10 of the Act (45 U.S.C. 160), it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment of Emergency Board ("Board"). There is established effective May 8, 1996, a Board of three members to be appointed by the President to investigate the dispute. No member shall be pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of railroad employees or any railroad carrier. The Board shall perform its functions subject to the availability of funds.
Sec. 2. Report. The Board shall report to the President with respect to the dispute within 30 days of its creation.
Sec. 3. Maintaining Conditions. As provided by section 10 of the Act, from the date of the creation of the Board and for 30 days after the Board has made its report to the President, no change, except by agreement of the parties shall be made by the railroads or the employees in the conditions out of which the dispute arose.
Sec. 4. Records Maintenance. The records and files of the Board are records of the Office of the President and upon the Board's termination shall be maintained in the physical custody of the National Mediation Board.
Sec. 5. Expiration. The Board shall terminate upon the submission of the report provided for in sections 2 and 3 of this order.
William J. Clinton
The White House,
May 8, 1996.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., May 9, 1996]