By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including but not limited to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), and in order to take additional steps with respect to the national emergency described and declared in Executive Order 12924 of August 19, 1994, and continued on August 15, 1995, and August 14, 1996, in order to amend Executive Order 12981 as that order applies to the processing of applications for the export of any commercial communication satellites and any hot-section technologies for the development, production, and overhaul of commercial aircraft engines that are transferred from the United States Munitions List to the Commerce Control List pursuant to regulations issued by the Departments of Commerce and State after the effective date of this order, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Amendment of Executive Order 12981. (a) Section 5(a)(3)(B) of Executive Order 12981 is amended to read as follows:
(B) The OC shall review all license applications on which the reviewing departments and agencies are not in agreement. The Chair of the OC shall consider the recommendations of the reviewing departments and agencies and inform them of his or her decision on any such matters within 14 days after the deadline for receiving department and agency recommendations. However, for license applications concerning commercial communication satellites and hot-section technologies for the development, production, and overhaul of commercial aircraft engines that are transferred from the United States Munitions List to the Commerce Control List pursuant to regulations issued by the Departments of Commerce and State after the date of this order, the Chair of the OC shall inform reviewing departments and agencies of the majority vote decision of the OC. As described below, any reviewing department or agency may appeal the decision of the Chair of the OC, or the majority vote decision of the OC in cases concerning the commercial communication satellites and hot-section technologies described above, to the Chair of the ACEP. In the absence of a timely appeal, the Chair's decision (or the majority vote decision in the case of license applications concerning the commercial communication satellites and hot-section technologies described above) will be final.
(b) Section 5(b)(1) of Executive Order 12981 is amended to read as follows:
(1) If any department or agency disagrees with a licensing determination of the Department of Commerce made through the Chair of the OC (or a majority vote decision of the OC in the case of license applications concerning the commercial communication satellites and the hot-section technologies described in section 5(a)(3)(B)), it may appeal the matter to the ACEP for resolution.
A department or agency must appeal a matter within 5 days of such a decision. Appeals must be in writing from an official appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, or an officer properly acting in such capacity, and must cite both the statutory and the regulatory bases for the appeal.
The ACEP shall review all departments' and agencies' information and recommendations, and the Chair of the ACEP shall inform the reviewing departments and agencies of the majority vote decision of the ACEP within 11 days from the date of receiving notice of the appeal. Within 5 days of the majority vote decision, any dissenting department or agency may appeal the decision by submitting a letter from the head of the department or agency to the Secretary in his or her capacity as the Chair of the Board.
Such letter shall cite both the statutory and the regulatory bases for the appeal. Within the same 5-day period, the Secretary may call a meeting on his or her own initiative to consider a license application. In the absence of a timely appeal, the majority vote decision of the ACEP shall be final.
Sec. 2. Judicial Review. This order is not intended to create, nor does it create, any rights to administrative or judicial review, or any other right or benefit or trust responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable by a party against the United States, its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.
Sec. 3. Effective Date. This order shall be effective immediately and shall remain in effect until terminated.
William J. Clinton
The White House,
October 12, 1996.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., October 16, 1996]