By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including 31 U.S.C. 301 and 26 U.S.C. 7801(a), and in order to establish a permanent oversight board to assist the Secretary of the Treasury ("Secretary") in ensuring effective management of the Internal Revenue Service, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is hereby established within the Department of the Treasury the Internal Revenue Service Management Board ("Board").
(b) The Board shall consist of:
(1) the Deputy Secretary of the Treasury, who shall serve as Chair of the Board;
(2) the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Management) and the Chief Financial Officer, who shall serve as Vice Chairs;
(3) the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Tax Policy);
(4) the Under Secretary of the Treasury (Enforcement);
(5) the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Departmental Finance and Management);
(6) the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Information Systems)/Chief Information Officer;
(7) the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Legislative Affairs and Public Liaison);
(8) the General Counsel for the Department of the Treasury;
(9) the Director, Office of Security, Department of the Treasury;
(10) the Senior Procurement Executive for the Department of the Treasury;
(11) the Commissioner of Internal Revenue;
(12) the Deputy Commissioner of Internal Revenue;
(13) the Associate Commissioner of Internal Revenue for Modernization/Chief Information Officer of the Internal Revenue Service;
(14) the Deputy Director for Management, Office of Management and Budget;
(15) the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget;
(16) a representative of the Office of the Vice President designated by the Vice President;
(17) a representative of the Office of Management and Budget designated by the Director of such office;
(18) a representative of the Office of Personnel Management designated by the Director of such office;
(19) representatives of such other Government agencies as may be determined from time to time by the Secretary of the Treasury, designated by the head of such agency; and
(20) such other officers or employees of the Department of the Treasury as may be designated by the Secretary.
(c) A member of the Board described in paragraphs (16) through (20) of subsection (b) may be removed by the official who designated such member.
(d) The Board may seek the views, consistent with 18 U.S.C. 205, of Internal Revenue Service employee representatives on matters considered by the Board under section 3 of this order.
Sec. 2. Structure. There shall be an Executive Committee of the full Board, the members of which shall be appointed by the Secretary.
Sec. 3. Functions. (a) The Board shall directly support the Secretary's oversight of the management and operation of the Internal Revenue Service. This includes:
(1) working through the Deputy Secretary, assisting the Secretary on the full range of high-level management issues and concerns affecting the Internal Revenue Service, particularly those that have a significant impact on operations, modernization, and customer service.
(2) acting through the Executive Committee, serving as the primary review for strategic decisions concerning modernization of the Internal Revenue Service, including modernization direction, strategy, significant reorganization plans, performance metrics, budgetary issues, major capital investments, and compensation of personnel.
(b) The Board shall meet at least monthly and shall prescribe such bylaws or procedures as the Board deems appropriate.
(c) The Board shall prepare semiannual reports to the President and to the Congress, which shall be transmitted by the Secretary of the Treasury.
Sec. 4. Administration. To the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary shall provide the Board administrative services, facilities, staff, and such other financial support services as may be necessary for the performance of its functions under this order.
Sec. 5. Judicial Review. This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the Internal Revenue Service and is not intended, and shall not be construed, to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against the United States, its agencies, its officers, or its employees.
William J. Clinton
The White House,
June 24, 1997.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., June 25, 1997]