By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Small Business Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 631 et seq.), and to help ensure that Federal agencies properly and effectively assist the private sector in its manufacturing innovation efforts, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Policy. Continued technological innovation is critical to a strong manufacturing sector in the United States economy. The Federal Government has an important role, including through the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and the Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) programs, in helping to advance innovation, including innovation in manufacturing, through small businesses.
Sec. 2. Duties of Department and Agency Heads. The head of each executive branch department or agency with one or more SBIR programs or one or more STTR programs shall:
 (a)
 to the extent permitted by law and in a manner consistent with the mission of that department or agency, give high priority within such programs to manufacturing-related research and development to advance the policy set forth in section 1 of this order; and
 (b)
 submit reports annually to the Administrator of the Small Business Administration and the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy concerning the efforts of such department or agency to implement subsection 2(a) of this order.
Sec. 3. Duties of Administrator of the Small Business Administration. The Administrator of the Small Business Administration:
 (a)
 shall establish, after consultation with the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, formats and schedules for submission of reports by the heads of departments and agencies under subsection 2(b) of this order; and
 (b)
 is authorized to issue to departments and agencies guidelines and directives (in addition to the formats and schedules under subsection 3(a)) as the Administrator determines from time to time are necessary to implement subsection 2(a) of this order, after such guidelines and directives are submitted to the President, through the Director of the
Office of Science and Technology Policy, for approval and are approved by the President. Sec. 4. Definitions. As used in this order:
 (a)
 "Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program" means a program to which section 9(e)(4) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(e)(4)) refers;
 (b)
 "Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) program" means a program to which section 9(e)(6) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(e)(6)) refers;
 (c)
 "research and development" means an activity set forth in section 9(e)(5) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(e)(5)); and
 (d)
 "manufacturing-related" means relating to: (i) manufacturing processes, equipment and systems; or (ii) manufacturing workforce skills and protection.
Sec. 5. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect the authority of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget with respect to budget, administrative, or legislative proposals.
 (b)
 Nothing in this order shall be construed to require disclosure of information the disclosure of which is prohibited by law or by Executive Order, including Executive Order 12958 of April 17, 1995, as amended.
 (c)
 This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity, against the United States, its departments, agencies, or other entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.
 GEORGE W. BUSH
The White House,
February 24, 2004.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., February 25, 2004]