By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 
et seq
.) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 
et seq
.), section 5 of the United Nations Participation Act of 1945, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c) (UNPA), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, 
I, Barack Obama,
 President of the United States of America, hereby expand the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13566 of February 25, 2011, finding that the ongoing violence in Libya, including attacks by armed groups against Libyan state facilities, foreign missions in Libya, and critical infrastructure, as well as human rights abuses, violations of the arms embargo imposed by United Nations Security Council Resolution 1970 (2011), and misappropriation of Libya's natural resources threaten the peace, security, stability, sovereignty, democratic transition, and territorial integrity of Libya, and thereby constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. To address this threat, and in view of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 2174 of August 27, 2014, and 2213 of March 27, 2015, I hereby order: 
Section 1
. (a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in: any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State: 
(i) to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have engaged in, directly or indirectly, any of the following: 
(A) actions or policies that threaten the peace, security, or stability of Libya, including through the supply of arms or related materiel; 
(B) actions or policies that obstruct, undermine, delay, or impede, or pose a significant risk of obstructing, undermining, delaying, or impeding, the adoption of or political transition to a Government of National Accord or a successor government; 
(C) actions that may lead to or result in the misappropriation of state assets of Libya; or 
(D) threatening or coercing Libyan state financial institutions or the Libyan National Oil Company; 
(ii) to be planning, directing, or committing, or to have planned, directed, or committed, attacks against any Libyan state facility or installation (including oil facilities), against any air, land, or sea port in Libya, or against any foreign mission in Libya; (iii) to be involved in, or to have been involved in, the targeting of civilians through the commission of acts of violence, abduction, forced displacement, or attacks on schools, hospitals, religious sites, or locations where civilians are seeking refuge, or through conduct that would constitute a serious abuse or violation of human rights or a violation of international humanitarian law; 
(iv) to be involved in, or to have been involved in, the illicit exploitation of crude oil or any other natural resources in Libya, including the illicit production, refining, brokering, sale, purchase, or export of Libyan oil; 
(v) to be a leader of an entity that has, or whose members have, engaged in any activity described in subsections (a)(i), (a)(ii), (a)(iii), or (a)(iv) of this section; 
(vi) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, logistical, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of (A) any of the activities described in subsections (a)(i), (a)(ii), (a)(iii), or (a)(iv) of this section or (B) any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or 
(vii) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order. 
(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order. The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section are in addition to export control authorities implemented by the Department of Commerce. 
Sec. 2
. I hereby find that the unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in section 1(a) of this order would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and I hereby suspend entry into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, of such persons. Such persons shall be treated as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions). Further, United Nations Security Council Resolution 2174 shall be treated as a Resolution listed in Annex A of Proclamation 8693. 
Sec. 3
. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the type of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13566 and expanded in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order. 
Sec. 4
. The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include but are not limited to: 
(a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and 
(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person. 
Sec. 5
. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited. 
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited. 
Sec. 6
. For the purposes of this order: 
(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity; 
(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization; and 
(c) the term "United States person" means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States. 
(d) the term "Government of National Accord or a successor government" means: 
(i) a Government of National Accord formed pursuant to the terms of the Libyan Political Agreement signed in Skhirat, Morocco, on December 17, 2015, or any amendments thereto; 
(ii) a governmental authority formed under the Libyan Constitution pursuant to the terms of the Libyan Political Agreement signed in Skhirat, Morocco, on December 17, 2015, or any amendments thereto; 
(iii) any subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of the foregoing, and any partnership, association, corporation, or other organization owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by, or acting for or on behalf of, the foregoing; or 
(iv) any other person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury to be included within paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. 
Sec. 7
. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13566 and expanded in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order. 
Sec. 8
. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA and the UNPA, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of the United States Government consistent with applicable law. All agencies of the United States Government are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order. 
Sec. 9
. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. 
BARACK OBAMA 
The White House, 
April 19, 2016.