HEADQUARTERS OF THE ARMY,
ADJUTANT-GENERAL'S OFFICE,
 Washington, March 7, 1837.
 
 GENERAL ORDER NO. 6.
I. The Major-General Commanding in Chief has received from the War Department the following order:
WASHINGTON,
 March 6, 1837.
 
General Andrew Jackson, ex-President of the United States, being about to depart from this city for his home in Tennessee, and the state of his health rendering it important that he should be accompanied by a medical attendant, the President directs that the Surgeon-General of the Army accompany the ex-President to Wheeling, in the State of Virginia, there to be relieved, in case the ex-President's health shall be such as to allow it, by some officer of the Medical Department, who will attend the ex-President from that place to his residence.
In giving this order the President feels assured that this mark of attention to the venerable soldier, patriot, and statesman now retiring in infirm health from the cares of office to the repose of private life will be as grateful to the feelings of the American people as it appears to the President to be suitable in itself.
M. VAN BUREN.
The Major-General Commanding in Chief will carry into effect the foregoing directions of the President of the United States.
B. F. BUTLER,
 Secretary of War ad interim.
 
II. Pursuant to the above order, Surgeon-General Lawson will immediately join the ex-President, and will accompany him as his medical attendant to Wheeling, in the State of Virginia, and, at his discretion, to the residence of the ex-President, at the Hermitage, near Nashville, in the State of Tennessee.
III. Assistant Surgeon Reynolds will join the ex-President at Wheeling, Va., and from that place, either alone or in conjunction with the Surgeon-General, as the latter may direct, will proceed with the ex-President to his residence in Tennessee.
IV. The officers above named, on the conclusion of the duties above assigned to them, will repair to their respective stations. By order of Alexander MacGrab, Major-General Commanding in Chief:
P. JONES,
 Adjutant-General.