By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas,
 it is provided by section twenty-four of the act of Congress, approved March third, 1891, entitled "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes," "That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof;"
And Whereas,
 the public lands in the State of Colorado, within the limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and reserving said lands as a public reservation;
Now, Therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt,
 President of the United States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of land lying and being situate in the State of Colorado and particularly described as follows, to wit:
In township forty-four (44) north, range eleven (11) east, the following sections: one (1) to three (3), both inclusive, east half of section four (4), sections ten (10) to fifteen (15), both inclusive, east half of section twenty-two (22), sections twenty-three (23) to twenty-six (26), both inclusive, and section thirty-five (35).
In township forty-five (45) north, range eleven (11) east, the following sections: one (1) to five (5), both inclusive, east half of sections six (6) and seven (7), sections eight (8) to seventeen (17), both inclusive, sections twenty (20) to twenty-eight (28), both inclusive, east half of section twenty-nine (29) and sections thirty-three (33) to thirty-six (36), both inclusive.
In township forty-three (43) north, range twelve (12) east, the following sections: one (1) to five (5), both inclusive, and sections eight (8) to twelve (12), both inclusive.
In township forty-four (44) north, range twelve (12) east, the following sections: one (1) to thirty-five (35), both inclusive.
In township forty-five (45) north, range twelve (12) east, the following sections: two (2) to eleven (11), both inclusive, and sections thirteen (13) to thirty-five (35), both inclusive:
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired: Provided, that this exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settlement upon the tract of land reserved by this proclamation.
The reservation hereby established shall be known as The San Isabel Forest Reserve.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done
 at the city of Washington this eleventh day of April, A. D. 1902, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-sixth.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President:
DAVID J. HILL,
 Acting Secretary of State.