By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas,
 the Congress of the United States has passed an Act approved March 3, 1905, and entitled, "An Act To provide for celebrating the birth of the American nation, the first permanent settlement of English-speaking people on the Western Hemisphere, by the holding of an international naval, marine, and military celebration in the vicinity of Jamestown, on the waters of Hampton Roads, in the State of Virginia; to provide for a suitable and permanent commemoration of said event, and to authorize an appropriation in aid thereof and for other purposes";
And Whereas,
 Section 3 of the said Act reads as follows:
"SEC. 3. The President of the United States is hereby authorized to make proclamation of said celebration, setting forth the event to be commemorated, inviting foreign nations to participate by the sending of their naval vessels and such representation of their military organizations as may be practicable. . .":
Now, Therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt,
 President of the United States, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the said Act, do hereby declare and proclaim that there shall be inaugurated, in the year nineteen hundred and seven, on and near the waters of Hampton Roads, in the State of Virginia, an international naval, marine and military celebration, beginning May 13, and ending not later than November 1, 1907, for the purpose of commemorating, in a fitting and appropriate manner, the birth of the American nation, the first permanent settlement of English-speaking people on the American Continent, made at Jamestown, Virginia, on the thirteenth day of May, sixteen hundred and seven, and in order that the great events of American history which have resulted therefrom, may be accentuated to the present and future generations of American citizens. And in the name of the Government and of the people of the United States, I do hereby invite all the nations of the earth to take part in the commemoration of an event which has had a far reaching effect upon the course of human history, by sending their naval vessels to the said celebration and by making such representations of their military organizations as may he practicable.
In Testimony Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done
 at the city of Washington, this 29th day of March, one thousand nine hundred and five, and of the Independence of the United States, the one hundred and twenty-ninth.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT.
By the President:
ALVEY A. ADEE,
 Acting Secretary of State.