By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 the Government of Switzerland decreed the removal, on and after January 1, 1906, of all differential customs duties from the products of the soil and industry of the United States, and granted to the same the benefit of the Swiss conventional tariff rates, by which action in the judgment of the President reciprocal and equivalent concessions are established in favor of the said products of the United States:
Now, Therefore, be it known that I, Theodore Roosevelt,
 President of the United States of America, acting under the authority conferred by the third Section of the Tariff Act of the United States approved July 24,1897, do hereby suspend during the continuance in force of the said concessions by the Government of Switzerland the imposition and collection of the duties imposed by the first Section of said Act upon the articles hereinafter specified, being the products of the soil and industry of Switzerland; and do declare in place thereof the following rates of duty provided in the third Section of said Act to be in force and effect from and after the date of this Proclamation, of which the officers and citizens of the United States will take due notice, namely:
Upon argols, or crude tartar, or wine lees, crude, five per centum ad valorem.
Upon brandies, or other spirits manufactured or distilled from grain or other materials, one dollar and seventy-five cents per proof gallon.
Upon still wines, and vermuth, in casks, thirty-five cents per gallon; in bottles or jugs, per case of one dozen bottles or jugs containing each not more than one quart and more than one pint, or twenty-four bottles or jugs containing each not more than one pint, one dollar and twenty-five cents per case, and any excess beyond these quantities found in such bottles or jugs shall be subject to a duty of four cents per pint or fractional part thereof, but no separate or additional duty shall be assessed upon the bottles or jugs.
Upon paintings in oil or water colors, pastels, pen and ink drawings, and statuary, fifteen per centum ad valorem.
In testimony whereof,
 I nave hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this first day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and thirtieth.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President:
Elihu Root
Secretary of State.


Citation: 
Theodore Roosevelt: 
"Proclamation 607—Reciprocal Reduction of Duties with Switzerland," January 1, 1906. 
Online by Gerhard Peters and John T. Woolley, 
The American Presidency Project
. http://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/ws/?pid=118796.

