By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
To the People of the United States:
It is my distressing duty to announce to the People of the United States the death of Philander Chase Knox, a Senator from the State of Pennsylvania, and formerly Attorney General and Secretary of State of the United States, which occurred at his residence in Washington on the 12th instant.
In his death his State has lost a most valuable and faithful servant, and his country one of its greatest statesmen. His good judgment, wise discrimination and keen perception eminently fitted him for the legal profession. Admitted to the bar in 1875, he early became recognized as one of the foremost lawyers of his State. Twice honored by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania by election to the Senate of the United States, he took, by his wise counsel, a prominent part in the framing of our laws and in the direction of our foreign policy. As Attorney General of the United States he rendered opinions noted for their legal ability. As Secretary of State, while guided by the principle to deal justly with all nations, his conduct of our foreign relations was ever marked by a devotion to the best interests of his country.
His private life was characterized by virtues worthy of emulation by all American citizens.
As an expression of the national sorrow at his death and in recognition of his valuable services to his country, his devotion to the public interests and his exalted patriotism, I do hereby direct that the National Flag be displayed at half staff on the Executive Offices of the United States on the day of his funeral, and that on all the embassies, legations and consulates of the United States in foreign countries the National Flag shall be displayed at half staff for ten days from the receipt of this Proclamation.
In witness whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this thirteenth day of October in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and twenty-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and forty-sixth.
WARREN G. HARDING
By the President:
CHARLES E. HUGHES, 
Secretary of State
.