By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas,
 a Joint Resolution of Congress, approved November 4, 1921, "To declare November 11, 1921, a legal public holiday" provides as follows:
Whereas,
 Armistice Day, November 11, 1921, has been designated as the appropriate time for the ceremonies incident to the burial of the unknown and unidentified American soldier in the Arlington National Cemetery; and
Whereas,
 this unknown soldier represents the manhood of America who gave their lives to defend its integrity, honor and tranquility against an enemy; and
Whereas,
 the nations of the earth are on that date joining with the United States in paying respect and homage to this unknown soldier; Therefore be it
Resolved, by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, that the President is hereby authorized to issue a proclamation declaring November 11, 1921, a holiday, as a mark of respect to the memory of those who gave their lives in the late World War, as typified by the unknown and unidentified American soldier who is to be buried in Arlington National Cemetery on that day; and the President is respectfully requested to recommend to the Governors of the various States that proclamations be issued by them calling upon their people to pause in their usual pursuits as a mark of respect on this solemn occasion.
Now, Therefore, I, Warren G. Harding,
 President of the United States of America, in pursuance of the said Joint Resolution of Congress, do hereby declare November 11, 1921, a holiday, as a mark of respect to the memory of those who gave their lives in the late World War, as typified by the unknown and unidentified American soldier who is to be buried in Arlington National Cemetery on that day; and do hereby recommend to the Governors of the several States that proclamations be issued by them calling upon the people of their respective States to pause in their usual pursuits as a mark Of respect on this solemn occasion.
And, in order that the solemnity of the occasion may be further emphasized, I do hereby furthermore recommend that all public and church bells throughout the United States be tolled at intervals between 11:45 o'clock a.m. and 12 o'clock noon of the said day, and that from 12 o'clock noon to two minutes past that hour, Washington time, all devout and patriotic citizens of the United States indulge in a period of silent thanks to God for these valuable valorous lives and of supplication for His Divine mercy and for His blessings upon our beloved country.
In witness whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this fourth day of November in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and twenty-one and of thd Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and forty-sixth.
WARREN G. HARDING
By the President:
CHARLES E. HUGHES, 
Secretary of State
.