By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
During the World War the United States Government insured, at an exceedingly low premium rate, nearly 5,000,000 members of the armed forces of the country against death or total permament disability. The insurance thus granted was for the greater protection of the insured and their dependents than was afforded in the compensation, independently of insurance and unconnected therewith, which was provided for death or disability resulting from personal injury, or disease contracted in the military service.
Statutory provision was made for the continuance of this war risk insurance after the termination of the war, and its conversion within a limited time into such form or forms of insurance, usually issued by life insurance companies, as the insured might request. Many veterans do not seem to have had knowledge of this continuing privilege, and for one reason or another have permitted their wark risk insurance to lapse. Under the terms provided for the reestablishment of lapsed insurance, normal health conditions will permit reinstatement upon the payment of two monthly premiums; and for those whose service disabilities render them otherwise not insurable, and who are not permamently and totally disabled, provision is made for reinstatement upon the payment of premiums and interest for the period of lapse. Even these payments may be temporarily waived for those whose resources do not permit immediate compliance.
The law provides that no reinstatement of war risk life insurance which has lapsed shall be made after July 2,1927. After that date, such war risk term insurance cannot be reinstated. On or prior to that date, therefore, such insurance must be reinstated and converted, at the election of the applicant, into one or more of the seven standard forms of life insurance provided by the Government. If such insurance is now in force, the insured must convert it into one of the forms above mentioned on or before the above date.
The potential protective value of the insurance thus provided is apparent, as affecting the future economic and domestic welfare of veterans and their dependents. Provision is made for extended insurance, paid up values, loan values, cash surrender values, and dividend participation. No premium is charged during total permanent disability, Thousands of our national defenders are passing on each year. All veterans of the World War should be generally and fully informed of their right to procure the safe and certain protection for themselves and their dependents of the insurance afforded by the Government.
Detailed information with reference to such insurance may be obtained from the Central Office of the United States Veterans Bureau, Washington, D. C., or from its Regional Offices located throughout the country.
Wherefore, I, Calvin Coolidge,
 President of the United States, do hereby designate the period January 31 to February 7, 1927, as a time during which special effort should be made to inform all veterans of the World War of the right they have to reinstate lapsed war risk life insurance; and to convert it into United States Government life insurance; and, that all such veterans may, in some manner, be properly informed, I urge all citizens, particularly employers, the press, labor organizations, women's associations, professional groups and civic and patriotic bodies, to secure full information and use such means of informing the veterans as may be most effective.
In witness whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done
 at the city of Washington this 11th day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and twenty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and fifty-first.
CALVIN COOLIDGE
By the President:
FRANK B. KELLOGG, 
Secretary of State
.