By Virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 5(b) of the Act of October 6, 1917, as amended by Section 2 of the Act of March 9, 1933, entitled "An Act to Provide Relief in the Existing National Emergency in Banking and for other Purposes," I, Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States of America, do declare that a period of national emergency exists, and by virtue of said authority and of all other authority vested in me, do hereby prescribe the following provisions for the investigation and regulation of the hoarding, earmarking, and export of gold coin, gold bullion, and gold certificates by any person within the United States or any place subject to the jurisdiction thereof; and for the investigation and regulation of transactions in foreign exchange and transfers of credit and the export or withdrawal of currency from the United States or any place subject to the jurisdiction thereof by any person within the United States or any place subject to the jurisdiction thereof.
Section 2. Definitions. As used in this Order the term "person" means an individual, partnership, association, or corporation; and the term "the United States" means the United States and any place subject to the jurisdiction thereof.
Section 3. Returns. Within fifteen days from the date of this Order every person in possession of and every person owning gold coin, gold bullion, or gold certificates shall make under oath and file as hereinafter provided a return to the Secretary of the Treasury containing true and complete information relative thereto, including the name and address of the person making the return; the kind and amount of such coin, bullion, or certificates held and the location thereof; if held for another, the capacity' in which held and the person for whom held, together with the post-office address of such person; and the nature of the transaction requiring the holding of such coin, bullion, or certificates and a statement explaining why such transaction cannot be carried out by the use of currency other than gold certificates; provided that no returns are required to be filed with respect to
(a) Gold coin, gold bullion, and gold certificates in an amount not exceeding in the aggregate $100 belonging to any one person;
(b) Gold coin having a recognized special value to collectors of rare and unusual coin;
(c) Gold coin, gold bullion, and gold certificates acquired or held under a license heretofore granted by or under authority of the Secretary of the Treasury; and
(d) Gold coin, gold bullion, and gold certificates owned by Federal Reserve Banks.
Such return required to be made by an individual shall be filed with the Collector of Internal Revenue for the collection district in which such individual resides, or, if such individual has no legal residence in the United States, then with the Collector of Internal Revenue at Baltimore, Maryland. Such return required to be made by a partnership, association, or corporation shall be filed with the Collector of Internal Revenue of the collection district in which is located the principal place of business or principal office or agency of such partnership, association, or corporation, or, if it has no principal place of business or principal office or agency in the United States, then with the Collector of Internal Revenue at Baltimore, Maryland. Such return required to be made by an individual residing in Alaska shall be filed with the Collector of Internal Revenue at Seattle, Washington. Such return required to be made by a partnership, association, or corporation having its principal place of business or principal office or agency in Alaska shall be filed with the Collector of Internal Revenue at Seattle, Washington.
The Secretary of the Treasury may grant a reasonable extension of time for filing a return, under such rules and regulations as he shall prescribe. No such extension shall be for more than forty-five days from the date of this Executive Order. An extension granted hereunder shall be deemed a license to hold for a period ending fifteen days after the expiration of the extension.
The returns required to be made and filed under this Section shall constitute public records; but they shall be open to public inspection only upon order of the President and under rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury.
A return made and filed in accordance with this Section by the owner of the gold coin, gold bullion, and gold certificates described therein, or his duly authorized agent, shall be deemed an application for the issuance under Section 5 hereof of a license to hold such coin, bullion, and certificates.
Section 4. Acquisition of gold coin and gold bullion. No person other than a Federal Reserve Bank shall after the date of this Order acquire in the United States any gold coin, gold bullion, or gold certificates except under license therefor issued pursuant to this Executive Order, provided that member banks of the Federal Reserve System may accept delivery of such coin, bullion, and certificates for surrender promptly to a Federal Reserve Bank, and provided further that persons requiring gold for use in the industry, profession, or art in which they are regularly engaged may replenish their stocks of gold up to an aggregate amount of $100, by acquisitions of gold bullion held under licenses issued under Section 5(b), without necessity of obtaining a license for such acquisitions.
The Secretary of the Treasury, subject to such further regulations as he may prescribe, shall issue licenses authorizing the acquisition of
(a) Gold coin or gold bullion which the Secretary is satisfied is required for a necessary and lawful transaction for which currency other than gold certificates cannot be used, by an applicant who establishes that since March 9, 1933, he has surrendered an equal amount of gold coin, gold bullion, or gold certificates to a banking institution in the continental United States or to the Treasurer of the United States;
(b) Gold coin or gold bullion which the Secretary is satisfied is required by an applicant who holds a license to export such an amount of gold coin or gold bullion issued under subdivisions (c) or (d) of Section 6 hereof, and
(c) Gold bullion which the Secretary, or such agency as he may designate, is satisfied is required for legitimate and customary use in industry, profession, or art by an applicant regularly engaged in such industry, profession, or art, or in the business of furnishing gold therefor.
Licenses issued pursuant to this Section shall authorize the holder to acquire gold coin and gold bullion only from the sources specified by the Secretary of the Treasury in the regulations issued hereunder.
Section 5. Holding of gold coin, gold bullion, and gold certificates. After thirty days from the date of this Order no person shall hold in his possession or retain any interest, legal or equitable, in any gold coin, gold bullion, or gold certificates situated in the United States and owned by any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, except under license therefor issued pursuant to this Executive Order; provided, however, that licenses shall not be required in order to hold in possession or retain an interest in gold coin, gold bullion, or gold certificates with respect to which a return need not be filed under Section 3 hereof.
The Secretary of the Treasury, subject to such further regulations as he may prescribe, shall issue licenses authorizing the holding of
(a) Gold coin, gold bullion, and gold certificates, which the Secretary is satisfied are required by the person owning the same for necessary and lawful transactions for which currency, other than gold certificates, cannot be used;
(b) Gold bullion which the Secretary, or such agency as he may designate, is satisfied is required for legitimate and customary use in industry, profession, or art by a person regularly engaged in such industry, profession, or art or in the business of furnishing gold therefor;
(c) Gold coin and gold bullion earmarked or held in trust since before April 20, 1935, for a recognized foreign Government or foreign central bank or the Bank for International Settlements; and
(d) Gold coin and gold bullion imported for reexport or held pending action upon application for export licenses.
Section 6. Earmarking and export of gold coin and gold bullion. After the date of this Order no person shall earmark or export any gold coin, gold bullion, or gold certificates from the United States, except under license therefor issued by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to the provisions of this Order.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in his discretion and subject to such regulations as he may prescribe, may issue licenses authorizing
(a) The export of gold coin or gold bullion earmarked or held in trust since before April 20, 1933, for a recognized foreign Government, foreign central bank, or the Bank for International Settlements;
(b) The export of gold, (i) imported for reexport, (ii) refined from gold-bearing materials imported by the applicant under an agreement to export gold, or (iii) in bullion containing not more than five ounces of gold per ton;
(c) The export of gold coin or gold bullion to the extent actually required for the fulfillment of a contract entered into by the applicant prior to April 20, 1933; but not in excess of the amount of the gold coin, gold bullion, and gold certificates surrendered by the applicant on or after March 9, 1933; to a banking institution in the continental United States or to the Treasurer of the United States; and
(d) The earmarking for foreign account and/or export of gold coin or gold bullion, with the approval of the President, for transactions which the Secretary of the Treasury may deem necessary to promote the public interest.
Section 7. United States Possessions—Shipments thereto. The provisions of Sections 3 and 5 of this Order shall not apply to gold coin, gold bullion, or gold certificates which are situated in the Philippine Islands, American Samoa, Guam, Hawaii, Panama Canal Zone, Puerto Rico, or the Virgin Islands of the United States, and are owned by a person not domiciled in the continental United States. The provisions of Section 4 shall not apply to acquisitions by persons within the Philippine Islands, American Samoa, Guam, Hawaii, Panama Canal Zone, Puerto Rico, or the Virgin Islands of the United States of gold coin or gold bullion which has not been taken or sent thereto since April 5, 1933, from the continental United States or any place subject to the jurisdiction thereof.
Section 8. Until further order, the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized, through any agency that he may designate, to investigate, regulate, or prohibit, under such rules and regulations as he may prescribe, by means of licenses or otherwise, any transactions in foreign exchange, transfers of credit from any banking institution within the United States to any foreign branch or office of such banking institution or to any foreign bank or banker, and the export or withdrawal of currency from the United States, by any person within the United States; and the Secretary of the Treasury may require any person engaged in any transaction referred to herein to furnish under oath complete information relative thereto, including the production of any books of account, contracts, letters, or other papers, in connection therewith in the custody or control of such person either before or after such transaction is completed.
Section 9. The Secretary of the Treasury is hereby authorized and empowered to issue such regulations as he may deem necessary to carry out the purposes of this Order. Such regulations may provide for the detention in the United States of any gold coin, gold bullion, or gold certificates sought to be transported beyond the limits of the continental United States, pending an investigation to determine if such coin, bullion, or certificates are held or are to be acquired in violation of the provisions of this Executive Order. Licenses and permits granted in accordance with the provisions of this Order and the regulations prescribed hereunder, may be issued through such officers or agencies as the Secretary may designate.
Section 10. Whoever willfully violates any provision of this Executive Order or of any license, order, rule, or regulation issued or prescribed hereunder, shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $10,000, or, if a natural person, may be imprisoned for not more than 10 years, or both; and any officer, director, or agent of any corporation who knowingly participates in such violation may be punished by a like fine, imprisonment, or both.
Section 11. The Executive Orders of April 5, 1933, Forbidding the Hoarding of Gold Coin, Gold Bullion and Gold Certificates, and April 20, 1933, relating to Foreign Exchange and the Earmarking and Export of Gold Coin or Bullion or Currency, respectively, are hereby revoked. The revocation of such prior Executive Orders shall not affect any act done, or any right accruing or accrued, or any suit or proceeding had or commenced in any civil or criminal cause prior to said revocation, but all liabilities under said Executive Orders shall continue and may be enforced in the same manner as if said revocation had not been made. This Executive Order and any regulations or licenses issued hereunder may be modified or revoked at any time.