Pursuant to authority vested in me by Title II of the National Industrial Recovery Act, approved June 16, 1933, I hereby designate the Federal Power Commission as an agency to aid the Federal Emergency Administrator of Public Works in the preparation of that part of the comprehensive program of public works provided for in Section 202 of the act which pertains to the development of water power and the transmission of electrical energy. As such agency, the Commission shall make a survey of the water resources of the United States as they relate to the conservation, development, control, and utilization of water power; of the relation of water power to other industries and to interstate and foreign commerce; and of the transmission of electrical energy in the United States and its distribution to consumers, and on the basis of this survey, shall formulate a program of public works. . . .
2. I further authorize and direct the Commission to investigate, upon the request of the Federal Emergency Administrator of Public Works, applications for loans to be made under Title II of the National Industrial Recovery Act for the construction of public-works projects which involve the development and utilization of electric power, and to make recommendations with respect thereto to the Administrator.
3. The Commission shall have authority to appoint, without regard to the civil-service laws, such officers, experts, and employees as it may find necessary to carry out its functions under this order, to prescribe their authorities, duties, responsibilities, and tenure and, without regard to the Classification Act, 1923, as amended, to fix their compensation. The Commission shall have authority also to make all necessary expenditures (including expenditures for personal services and rent at the seat of government or elsewhere, for law books and books of reference and for paper, printing, and binding).
4. The total expenditures by the Commission in connection with its functions and duties under this .order shall not exceed the sum of four hundred thousand dollars ($400,000.00).