BY virtue of the authority vested in me under Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act, approved June 16, 1933 (Public No. 67, 73d Congress):
(1) There is hereby established an agency to be known as the "Federal Alcohol Control Administration" to aid in effectuating the policy of said title.
(2) The Administration shall be composed of five officers of the executive branch of the Government to be designated by the President from time to time.
(3) The following-named persons are hereby designated and appointed as the original members of the Federal Alcohol Control Administration, established under the provisions of said title:
 Joseph H. Choate, Jr., Treasury Department
 Edward G. Lowry, Jr., Treasury Department
 Harris E. Willingham, Department of Agriculture
 W. A. Tarver, Department of Justice
 Willard L. Thorp, Department of Commerce
(4) Joseph H. Choate, Jr., is designated as chairman of and Director for the Administration.
(5) The Administration is hereby authorized (a) to make investigations and studies with reference to the coordination of the activities of the Government pertaining to the taxation, control, and regulation of alcohol and alcoholic beverages, and such other investigations and studies as it deems necessary to aid it in performing its functions; (b) to exercise such powers and duties as may be vested in it by any code of fair competition or license under the National Industrial Recovery Act or by any marketing agreement or license under the Agricultural Adjustment Act, pertaining to alcohol or alcoholic beverages; (c) to prescribe rules and regulations with respect to any such code, marketing agreement, or license, other than provisions thereof relating to hours of labor, rates of pay, or other conditions of employment; and
(6) To utilize the services of any department or other establishment or agency of the Government to the extent necessary to carry out the powers and duties of the Administration, including services of the Bureau of Internal Revenue, the Bureau of Customs, the Agricultural Adjustment Administration, and the Food and Drugs Administration. Any department, establishment, or agency whose services are so utilized may be compensated therefor from such funds as may be allocated to the Administration from moneys available for carrying out the purposes of Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act.
(7) The Administration shall fix the compensation and define the powers and duties of the Director. The Director shall appoint and fix the compensation of such officers and employees of the Administration without regard to the civil-service rules and the Classification Act of 1923, as amended, and shall make such expenditures as may be necessary to carry out the powers and duties of the Administration.
(8) For the purposes of this order (including payment of the salary of the Director for the Administration), unless otherwise provided for, the sum of $500,000 is hereby allocated from the appropriation of $3,300,000,000 authorized by Section 220 of the National Industrial Recovery Act and made by the Fourth Deficiency Act, fiscal year 1933 (Public No. 77, 73d Congress).