By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 Section 1 of a Joint Resolution of Congress, entitled "Joint Resolution Providing for the prohibition of the export of arms, ammunition, and implements of war to belligerent countries; the prohibition of the transportation of arms, ammunition, and implements of war by vessels of the United States for the use of belligerent States; for the registration and licensing of persons engaged in the business of manufacturing, exporting, or importing arms, ammunition, or implements of war; and restricting travel by American citizens on belligerent ships during war," approved August 31, 1935, provides in part as follows:
"That upon the outbreak or during the progress of war between, or among, two or more foreign states, the President shall proclaim such fact, and it shall thereafter be unlawful to export arms, ammunition, or implements of war from any place in the United States, or possessions of the United States, to any port of such belligerent States, or to any neutral port for transshipment to, or for the use of, a belligerent country."
And Whereas
 it is further provided by Section 1 of the said Joint Resolution that—
"The President, by proclamation, shall definitely enumerate the arms, ammunition, or implements of war, the export of which is prohibited by this Act."
And Whereas
 it is further provided by Section 1 of the said Joint Resolution that—
"Whoever, in violation of any of the provisions of this section, shall export, or attempt to export, or cause to be exported, arms, ammunition, or implements of war from the United States, or any of its possessions, shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than five years, or both, and the property, vessel, or vehicle containing the same shall be subject to the provisions of Sections 1 to 8, inclusive, Title 6, Chapter 30, of the Act approved June 15, 1917 (40 Stat. 223-225; U.S.C., Title 22, Secs. 238-245) ."
Now, Therefore, I, Franklin D. Roosevelt,
 President of the United States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority conferred on me by the said Joint Resolution of Congress, do hereby proclaim that a state of war unhappily exists between Ethiopia and the Kingdom of Italy; and I do hereby admonish all citizens of the United States or any of its possessions and all persons residing or being within the territory or jurisdiction of the United States or its possessions to abstain from every violation of the provisions of the Joint Resolution above set forth, hereby made effective and applicable to the export of arms, ammunition, or implements of war from any place in the United States or its possessions to Ethiopia or to the Kingdom of Italy, or to any Italian possession, or to any neutral port for transshipment to, or for the use of, Ethiopia or the Kingdom of Italy.
And I do hereby declare and proclaim that the articles listed below shall be considered arms, ammunition, and implements of war for the purposes of Section 1 of the said Joint Resolution of Congress:
CATEGORY I
(1) Rifles and carbines using ammunition in excess of cal. 26.5, and their barrels;
(2) Machine guns, automatic rifles, and machine pistols of all calibers, and their barrels;
(3) Guns, howitzers, and mortars of all calibers, their mountings and barrels;
(4) Ammunition for the arms enumerated under (1) and (2) above, i.e., high-power steel-jacketed ammunition in excess of cal. 26.5; filled and unfilled projectiles and propellants with a web thickness of .015 inch or greater for the projectiles of the arms enumerated under (3) above;
(5) Grenades, bombs, torpedoes, and mines, filled or unfilled, and apparatus for their use or discharge;(6) Tanks, military armored vehicles, and armored trains.
CATEGORY II
Vessels of war of all kinds, including aircraft carriers and submarines.
CATEGORY III
(1) Aircraft, assembled or dismantled, both heavier and lighter than air, which are designed, adapted, and intended for aerial combat by the use of machine guns or of artillery or for the carrying and dropping of bombs or which are equipped with, or which by reason of design or construction are prepared for, any of the appliances referred to in paragraph (2) below;
(2) Aerial gun mounts and frames, bomb racks, torpedo carriers, and bomb or torpedo release mechanisms.
CATEGORY IV
Revolvers and automatic pistols of a weight in excess of 1 pound 6 ounces (630 grams), using ammunition in excess of cal. 26.5, and ammunition therefor.
CATEGORY V
(1) Aircraft, assembled or dismantled, both heavier and lighter than air, other than those included in Category III;
(2) Propellers or air screws, fuselages, hulls, tail units, and under-carriage units;(3) Aircraft engines.
CATEGORY VI
(1) Livens projectors and flame throwers;
(2) Mustard gas, lewisite, ethyldichlorarsine, and methyldichlorarsine.
And I do hereby enjoin upon all officers of the United States, charged with the execution of the laws thereof, the utmost diligence in preventing violations of the said Joint Resolution, and this my proclamation issued thereunder, and in bringing to trial and punishment any offenders against the same.
And I do hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the power of prescribing regulations for the enforcement of Section I Of the said joint resolution of August 31, 1935, as made effective by this my proclamation issued thereunder.
FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT