By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the United States Housing Act of 1937, approved September 1, 2937 (Public No. 412, 75th Congress), and in order to effectuate the purposes thereof, I hereby transfer to the United States Housing Authority, effective on November 2, 2937:
1. All right, interest, and title held by the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works in any housing or slum clearance projects constructed or in the process of construction on the date of enactment of the said Act (except certain portions or parcels of real estate, including easement rights, which the Federal Emergency Administrator of Public Works has heretofore reserved for dedication or grant pursuant to the provisions of Section 5 of the Act approved June 29, 1936, 49 Stat. 2026). Where more than one such project is located within the territorial boundaries of a city, all of the projects in that city shall be treated as a single project of the United States Housing Authority, without, however, prejudicing the power of the Authority to make separate sales, leases or other disposition of part or parts of the combined project or to make separate loans, capital grants or annual contributions in connection therewith.
2. All assets, contracts, records, applications, libraries, research materials and other property, held by the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works in connection with housing or slum-clearance projects transferred under paragraph 1 hereof or with housing or slum-clearance activities (except those portions or parcels of real estate reserved for dedication or grant, as aforesaid); provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed as impairing or affecting the obligation of the United States of America under any contracts transferred hereby.
3. Any unexpended balance of funds allocated to the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works for the construction of any housing or slum-clearance projects constructed or in the process of construction on the date of enactment of the said Act (except $200,000 of the balance of funds allocated for the construction of the housing projects in Puerto Rico known as H-3600-CA and H-3600-SJA).
4. Such unexpended balances of moneys made available to the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works for administrative expenses under the Independent Offices Appropriation Act, 1938, approved June 28, 1937 (Public No. 171, 75th Congress) as amended by the Public Works Administration Extension Act of 1937, approved June 29, 1937 (Public Res. No. 47, 75th Congress), as, with the approval of the Director of the Bureau of the Budget, the Federal Emergency Administrator of Public Works shall certify would otherwise have been used by the Housing Division of said Administration for administrative expenses.
5. All employees of the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works who are actually serving on the effective date of this order, and who shall be certified within six months from the date of this order, by the Federal Emergency Administrator of Public Works as having been engaged in work connected with housing or slum-clearance on or prior to the date of enactment of the said Act; provided that employees transferred pursuant to this Order shall not thereby acquire a competitive civil service status, but such employees (except officers, experts and attorneys) who are transferred and whose compensation per annum is $1,980 or less may acquire a competitive civil service status after compliance with the provisions of Section 6 of Rule II of the Civil Service Rules.