By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas,
 section 1 of the joint resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the joint resolution entitled "Joint resolution providing for the prohibition of the export of arms, ammunition, and implements of war to belligerent countries; the prohibition of the transportation of arms, ammunition, and implements of war by vessels of the United States for the use of belligerent states; for the registration and licensing of persons engaged in the business of manufacturing, exporting, or importing arms, ammunition, or implements of war; and restricting travel by American citizens on belligerent ships during war," approved August 31, 1935, as amended February 29, 1936, provides in part as follows:
"Whenever the President shall find that a state of civil strife exists in a foreign state and that such civil strife is of a magnitude or is being conducted under such conditions that the export of arms, ammunition, or implements of war from the United States to such foreign state would threaten or endanger the peace of the United States, the President shall proclaim such fact, and it shall thereafter be unlawful to export, or attempt to export, or cause to be exported, arms, ammunition, or implements of war from any place in the United States to such foreign state, or to any neutral state for transshipment to, or for the use of, such foreign state."
And Whereas
 it is further provided by section 1 of the said joint resolution that
"The President shall, from time to time by proclamation, definitely enumerate the arms, ammunition, and implements of war, the export of which is prohibited by this section. The arms, ammunition, and implements of war so enumerated shall include those enumerated in the President's proclamation Numbered 2163, of April 10, 1936, but shall not include raw materials or any other articles or materials not of the same general character as those enumerated in the said proclamation, and in the Convention for the Supervision of the International Trade in Arms and Ammunition and in Implements of War, signed at Geneva June 17, 1925."
And Whereas
 it is further provided by section 1 of the said joint resolution that
"Whoever, in violation of any of the provisions of this Act, shall export, or attempt to export, or cause to be exported, arms, ammunition, or implements of war from the United States shall be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned not more than five years, or both, and the property, vessel, or vehicle containing the same shall be subject to the provisions of sections 1 to 8, inclusive, title 6, chapter 30, of the Act approved June 15, 1917 (40 Stat. 223-225; U.S.C., 1934 ed., title 22, secs. 238-245)."
And Whereas
 it is further provided by section 1 of the said joint resolution that
"In the case of the forfeiture of any arms, ammunition, or implements of war by reason of a violation of this Act, no public or private sale shall be required; but such arms, ammunition, or implements of war shall be delivered to the Secretary of War for such use or disposal thereof as shall be approved by the President of the United States."
And Whereas
 it is further provided by section 11 of the said joint resolution that
"The President may, from time to time, promulgate such rules and regulations, not inconsistent with law, as may be necessary and proper to carry out any of the provisions of this Act; and he may exercise any power or authority conferred on him by this Act through such officer or officers, or agency or agencies, as he shall direct."
Now, Therefore, I, Franklin D. Roosevelt,
 President of the United States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority conferred on me by the said joint resolution, do hereby proclaim that a state of civil strife unhappily exists in Spain and that such civil strife is of a magnitude and is being conducted under such conditions that the export of arms, ammunition, or implements of war from the United States to Spain would threaten and endanger the peace of the United States, and I do hereby admonish all citizens of the United States, or any of its possessions, and all persons residing or being within the territory or jurisdiction of the United States, or its possessions, to abstain from every violation of the provisions of the joint resolution above set forth, hereby made effective and applicable to the export of arms, ammunition, or implements of war from any place in the United States to Spain or to any other state for transshipment to, or for the use of, Spain.
And I do hereby
 declare and proclaim that the articles listed below shall be considered arms, ammunition, and implements of war for the purposes of section 1 of the said joint resolution of Congress:
CATEGORY I
(1) Rifles and carbines using ammunition in excess of caliber .22, and barrels for those weapons;
(2) Machine guns, automatic or autoloading rifles, and machine. pistols using ammunition in excess of caliber .22, and barrels for those weapons;
(3) Guns, howitzers, and mortars of all calibers, their mountings and barrels;
(4) Ammunition in excess of caliber .22 for the arms enumerated under (1) and (2) above, and cartridge cases or bullets for such ammunition; filled and unfilled projectiles for the arms enumerated under (3) above;
(5) Grenades, bombs, torpedoes, mines and depth charges, filled or unfilled, and apparatus for their use or discharge;
(6) Tanks, military armored vehicles, and armored trains.
CATEGORY II
Vessels of war of all kinds, including aircraft carriers and submarines, and armor plate for such vessels.
CATEGORY III
(1) Aircraft, unassembled, assembled, or dismantled, both heavier and lighter than air, which are designed, adapted, and intended for aerial combat by the use of machine guns or of artillery or for the carrying and dropping of bombs, or which are equipped with, or which by reason of design or construction are prepared for, any of the appliances referred to in paragraph (2) below;
(2) Aerial gun mounts and frames, bomb racks, torpedo carriers, and bomb or torpedo release mechanisms.
CATEGORY IV
(1) Revolvers and automatic pistols using ammunition in excess of caliber .22;
(2) Ammunition in excess of caliber .22 for the arms enumerated under (1) above, and cartridge cases or bullets for such ammunition.
CATEGORY V
(1) Aircraft, unassembled, assembled or dismantled, both heavier and lighter than air, other than those included in Category III;
(2) Propellers or air screws, fuselages, hulls, wings, tail units, and under-carriage units;(3) Aircraft engines, unassembled, assembled, or dismantled.
CATEGORY VI
(1) Livens projectors and flame throwers;
(2) a. Mustard gas (dichlorethyl sulphide);
b. Lewisite (chlorvinyldichlorarsine and dichlordivinyl-chlorarsine);
c. Methyldichlorarsine;
d. Diphenylchlorarsine;
e. Diphenylcyanarsine;
f. Diphenylaminechlorarsine;
g. Phenyldichlorarsine;
h. Ethyldichlorarsine;
i. Phenyldibromarsine;
j. Ethyldibromarsine;
k. Phosgene;
l. Monochlormethylchlorformate;
m. Trichlormethylchlorformate (diphosgene);
n. Dichlordimethyl Ether;
o. Dibromdimethyl Ether;
p. Cyanogen Chloride;
q. Ethylbromacetate;
r. Ethyliodoacetate;
s. Brombenzylcyanide;
t. Bromacetone;
u. Brommethylethyl ketone.
CATEGORY VII
(1) Propellant powders;
(2) High explosives as follows:
a. Nitrocellulose having a nitrogen content of more than 12%;
b. Trinitrotoluene;
c. Trinitroxylene;
d. Tetryl (trinitrophenol methyl nitramine or tetranitromethylaniline);
e. Picric acid;
f. Ammonium picrate;
g. Trinitroanisol;
h. Trinitronaphthalene;
i. Tetranitronaphthalene;
j. Hexanitrodiphenylamine;
k. Pentaerythritetetranitrate (Penthrite or Pentrite);
l. Trimethylenetrinitramine (Hexogen or T4);
m. Potassium nitrate powders (black saltpeter powder);
n. Sodium nitrate powders (black soda powder);
o. Amatol (mixture of ammonium nitrate and trinitrotoluene);
p. Ammonal (mixture of ammonium nitrate, trinitrotoluene, and powdered aluminum, with or without other ingredients);
q. Schneiderite (mixture of ammonium nitrate and dinitronaphthalene, with or without other ingredients).
And I do hereby
 enjoin upon all officers of the United States, charged with the execution of the laws thereof, the utmost diligence in preventing violations of the said joint resolution, and this my proclamation issued thereunder, and in bringing to trial and punishment any offenders against the same.
And I do hereby
 delegate to the Secretary of State the power to exercise any power or authority conferred on me by the said joint resolution, as made effective by this my proclamation issued thereunder, and the power to promulgate such rules and regulations not inconsistent with law as may be necessary and proper to carry out any of its provisions.
FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT