Under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by Title I of the First War Powers Act, 1941, approved December 18, 1941 (Public Law 354, 77th Congress), and as Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. The Army of the United States is reorganized to provide under the Chief of Staff a ground force, under a Commanding General, Army Ground Forces; an air force, under a Commanding General, Army Air Forces; and a service of supply command, under a Commanding General, Services of Supply; and such overseas departments, task forces, base commands, defense commands, commands in theaters of operations, and other commands as the Secretary of War may find to be necessary for the national security.
2. The functions, duties, and powers of the chiefs of the following-named branches of the Army of the United States are transferred to the Commanding General, Army Ground Forces: Infantry, Cavalry, Field Artillery, and Coast Artillery Corps (except those relating to procurement, storage, and issue).
3. The functions, duties, and powers of the Commanding General, General Headquarters Air Force (Air Force Combat Command), and of the Chief of the Air Corps are transferred to the Commanding General, Army Air Forces.
4. The functions, duties, and powers of the Chief of Coast Artillery relating to procurement, storage, and issue are transferred to the Commanding General, Services of Supply.
5. Any officers holding offices the functions, duties, and powers of which are transferred by this Order shall be reassigned to suitable duties but shall continue to hold their respective offices until vacated.
6. The Secretary of War is authorized and directed to prescribe such functions, duties, and powers of the commanders of the various forces and commands of the Army of the United States and the agencies of the War Department and to issue from time to time such detailed instructions regarding personnel, funds, records, property, routing of correspondence, and other matters as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this Order. Such duties by the Secretary of War are to be performed subject always to the exercise by the President directly through the Chief of Staff of his functions as Commander in Chief in relation to strategy, tactics, and operations.
7. This Order shall become effective on March 9, 1942, and shall remain in force during the continuance of the present war and for six months after the termination thereof.