EXECUTIVE ORDER 9067
PROVIDING FOR THE TRANSFER OF PERSONNEL TO WAR AGENCIES
February 20, 1942
By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Civil Service Act (22 Stat. 403), and by Section 1753 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (U.S.C., title 5, sec. 631), and in order to expedite the transfer of personnel to war agencies, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. For the purpose of facilitating transfers of employees under the provisions of this Order, the Director of the Bureau of the Budget shall from time to time establish priority classifications of the several Executive departments and agencies, or of parts or activities thereof, in respect to their relative importance to the war program, and such classifications shall be controlling as to transfers under the provisions of this Order.
2. The Civil Service Commission is authorized to secure information as to employees of Executive departments and agencies who are deemed competent to perform essential war work in departments or agencies having a higher priority classification, and, with the consent of the employee concerned, to effect the transfer of any such employee to meet the personnel needs of a department or agency having a higher priority classification.
3. Whenever a transfer is proposed under the provisions of section 2, it shall become effective not later than ten days after notification to the department or agency in which the employee is serving. If, within that period, the employing department or agency presents to the Civil Service Commission evidence that its work will be jeopardized by the loss of the employee's services, the Civil Service Commission shall consider such evidence and make a final decision. Transfers to departments and agencies having the same or lower classifications, shall not be effected without the consent of the department or agency in which the employee is serving.
4. Any employee transferred pursuant to this Order shall be entitled to all the reemployment benefits provided by Executive Order No. 8973 of December 12, 1941.
5. The Civil Service Commission is authorized to adopt such rules and regulations and to establish such procedure as may be necessary to carry out its responsibilities under this Order. Each Executive department and agency shall promptly furnish the Civil Service Commission such information regarding its employees as the Commission may require for the effectuation of this Order.
6. This Order shall supersede any provisions of Executive Order No. 8973 of December 12, 1941, or of any other Executive Order or Rule of the Civil Service Commission which is in conflict therewith.
FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT
THE WHITE HOUSE,
February 20, 1942.
Exec. Order No. 9067, 7 FR 1407, 1942 WL 4051 (Pres.)