By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas,
 the President, having been duly notified by the National Mediation Board that a dispute between the Colorado & Wyoming Railway Company, a carrier, and certain of its employees represented by the following labor organizations:
Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and Enginemen 
Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen
which dispute has not heretofore been adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, amended, now threatens substantially to interrupt interstate commerce within the states of Colorado and Wyoming to a degree such as to deprive that section of the country of essential transportation service:
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the power vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, and by virtue of and under the authority in me vested by section 10 of the Railway Labor Act, amended, do hereby create a board to be composed of three persons not pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of railway employees or any carrier, to investigate the aforementioned dispute and report its findings to me within thirty days from this date.
The members of the board shall be compensated for and on account of such duties in the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) for every day actually employed with or upon account of travels and duties incident to such board. The members will be reimbursed for and they are hereby authorized to make expenditures for expenses for themselves and of the board, including necessary transportation expenses, and in conformity with Public No. 37378th Congress, approved June 28, 1944, not to exceed six dollars ($6.00) per diem in lieu of subsistence while so employed.
All expenditures of the Board shall be allowed and paid for out of the appropriation "Arbitration and Emergency Boards, National Mediation Board, 1945" on the presentation of itemized vouchers properly approved by the chairmen of the board hereby created.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done at the City of Washington this 16th day of May in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-five and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and sixty-ninth. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
JOSEPH C. GREW,
Acting Secretary of State.