By virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 2 of the Civil Service Act (22 Stat. 403), Schedules A and B of the Civil Service Rules are hereby amended as follows:
Paragraph 6, Subdivision I of Schedule A is amended to read:
6. Any person receiving from one department or establishment of the Government for his personal salary compensation aggregating not more than $648 per annum whose duties require only a portion of his time, or whose services are needed for very brief periods at intervals, provided that employment under this provision shall not be for job work such as contemplated in section 4 of rule VIII. Appointments under this paragraph for duty in Washington, D.C., may be made only with the express prior approval of the Commission when in the opinion of the Commission the use of existing registers or the establishment of new registers is impracticable. The name of the employee, designation, duties, rate of pay, and place of employment shall be shown in the periodical report of changes; and in addition, when payment is not at a per annum rate, the total service rendered and the distribution of such service during the year shall be shown in the report of changes at the end of each year or when the employee is separated from the service. The additional employment under similar conditions of such a person by another department or establishment of the Government will be subject to the approval of the Commission.
Paragraph 8, Subdivision I of Schedule A is amended to read:
8. Officers and employees in the Federal service on the Isthmus of Panama, except accountant, bookkeeper, clerk, draftsman, physician, play-ground director, statistician, stenographer, surgeon, trained nurse, typist, and harbor personnel in the Quartermaster Corps of the War Department. Appointments to clerical positions on the Isthmus of Panama paying $120 in United States currency per month or less may be made without examination.
Paragraph 3, Subdivision VII of Schedule A is amended to read:
3. Clerks in fourth class post offices.
Paragraph 7, Subdivision VII of Schedule A is amended to read:
7. Special delivery messengers in second, third, and fourth class post offices.
Paragraph 8, Subdivision VII of Schedule A is amended to read:
8. Unskilled laborers employed as janitors and cleaners in small postal units in leased quarters at a compensation less than $1299 per annum.
Paragraph 12, Subdivision VIII of Schedule A is amended to read:
12. Housekeepers in the Indian Service at a gross salary not in excess of $864 per annum.
Paragraph 19, Subdivision VIII of Schedule A is amended to read:
19. Temporary seasonal field assistants in forestry and range management at salaries not to exceed a rate of $1,704 a year and for not to exceed 4 months in any 1 calendar year.
Paragraph 4, Subdivision IX of Schedule A is amended to read:
4. Student assistants whose salaries shall not exceed a rate of $576 a year while employed. Only bona fide students at high schools or colleges of recognized standing shall be eligible for appointment under this paragraph. Appointments shall not exceed 6 months in any 1 calendar year, except in exceptionally meritorious cases, and then only upon prior approval of the Commission. Appointments under this paragraph shall be reported to the Commission in such form as the Commission may prescribe.
Paragraph 26, Subdivision IX of Schedule A is amended to read:
26. Technical or professional consultants or advisors, at salary rates of $5,180 or more, employed for not to exceed 6 months in any 1 calendar year.
Paragraph 27, Subdivision IX of Schedule A is amended to read:
Temporary, seasonal field assistants in forestry and range management, at salaries not to exceed a rate of $1,704 a year, and for not to exceed 4 months in any 1 calendar year.
Paragraph 28, Subdivision IX of Schedule A is amended to read:
Temporary, seasonal clerical or custodial positions in the Field Service of the Department of Agriculture, at places other than Civil Service Regional headquarters, paying not to exceed a rate of $2,100 a year, for periods not to exceed 6 months in any 1 calendar year, whenever in the opinion of the Commission such positions cannot be filled from existing registers.
Paragraph 4, Subdivision XI of Schedule A is amended to read:
4. Student assistants in the National Bureau of Standards whose salaries shall not exceed a rate of $576 a year each while employed. Only bona fide students at high schools or colleges of recognized standing pursuing technical or scientific courses shall be eligible for appointment under this paragraph. Appointments shall not exceed 6 months in any 1 calendar year, except in especially meritorious cases, and then only upon prior approval of the Commission. Appointments under this paragraph shall be reported to the Commission in such form as the Commission may prescribe.
Paragraph 11, Subdivision XI of Schedule A is amended to read:
11. Agents to take and transmit meteorological observations in connection with airways, whose duties require only part of their time, and whose compensation does not exceed $120 a month.
Paragraph 1, Subdivision VII of Schedule B is amended to read:
1. Specialists in foreign relations, political, economic, and financial, whose proposed compensation is $3,640 or more, and whose training and experience along the lines of their proposed duties meet the standard minimum qualifications set up in open competitive examinations for positions in the professional service for corresponding grades.
Paragraph 4, Subdivision XI of Schedule B is amended to read:
4. Commodity Credit Corporation: Technical or professional consultants or advisors, at salary rates of $5,180 or more, for periods not to exceed 18 months.
Paragraph 1, Subdivision XIII of Schedule B is amended to read:
1. National Training School for Boys: Assistants to cottage officers when filled by the appointment of bona fide students at colleges or universities at salaries not in excess of $648 per annum, subject to the approval of the Commission.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
November 1, 1945