By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes, including Title I of the First War Powers Act, 1941, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. There are transferred to the Reconstruction Finance Corporation all functions of the Smaller War Plants Corporation, hereinafter referred to as the Corporation, under sections 4 (f) and 6 of the act of June 11, 1942, 56 Stat. 351, sections 18 (e) and 18 (f) of the Surplus Property Act of 1944, 58 Stat. 765, and the Contract Settlement Act of 1944, 58 Stat. 649, except sections 20 (g) (1) and 21 (b) thereof and except so much of section 20 (g) (2) thereof as does not provide for making interim loans and guaranties, together with all personnel, property, records, assets, and liabilities otherwise determined pursuant to the provisions of sections 2 or 4 hereof. The functions of the board of directors of the Corporation which related to the functions of the Corporation transferred by this section are transferred to the board of directors of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation.
2. All functions of the Corporation not transferred by section 1 of this order are transferred to the Department of Commerce, and all functions of the board of directors of the Corporation which are not transferred by the said section, together with the functions of the chairman as a member of the Contract Settlement Advisory Board (provided for in section 5 of the Contract Settlement Act of 1944), are transferred to the Secretary of Commerce. Such functions may be performed through such agencies and persons in the Department of Commerce as the Secretary shall designate, and one of such persons may receive a salary at a rate of not more than $10,000 per annum. There shall be transferred to the Department of Commerce so much of the personnel, property, and records of the Corporation, and of the funds of the Corporation available for administrative expenses, as the Director of the Bureau of the Budget shall determine to relate primarily to the functions transferred by this section.
3. The board of directors of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and the Secretary of Commerce shall, respectively, submit the reports required by section 5 of the said act of June 11, 1942, in connection with the functions transferred under sections 1 and 2 of this order; and expenditures in connection with the functions transferred under the said section 1 which may be considered as non-administrative expenses under Public Law 156, 79th Congress, shall be determined by the chairman of the said board or by a person designated by such board.
4. Such further measures and dispositions as may be determined by the Director of the Bureau of the Budget to be necessary to effectuate the transfers provided for in this order shall be carried out in such manner as the Director may direct and by such agencies as he may designate.
5. All prior regulations, rulings, and other directives relating to any function transferred by this order shall remain in effect except as they are in conflict with this order or are hereafter amended or revoked under proper authority.
6. All provisions of prior Executive orders in conflict with this order are amended accordingly. 
7. This order shall be effective as of the opening of business January 28, 1946.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
December 27, 1945