By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the United Nations Participation Act of 1945 (59 Stat. 619) and as President of the United States, and for the purpose of defining further the functions of the Representative of the United States at the seat of the United Nations in connection with the participation of the United States in the United Nations, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. The Representative at the seat of the United Nations, the Deputy Representative to the Security Council, Representatives in the Economic and Social Council and its Commissions, the Trusteeship Council, the Atomic Energy Commission, the Commission for Conventional Armaments and the Military Staff Committee, and representatives to organs and agencies of the United Nations hereafter appointed or designated and included within the United States Mission to the United Nations herein provided for, together with their deputies, staffs and offices, shall be known as the United States Mission to the United Nations.
2. The Representative of the United States at the seat of the United Nations shall be the Chief of Mission in charge of the United States Mission to the United Nations. The Chief of Mission shall coordinate at the seat of the United Nations the activities of the Mission in carrying out the instructions of the President transmitted either by the Secretary of State or by other means of transmission as directed by the President. Instructions to the Representatives of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in the Military Staff Committee of the United Nations shall be transmitted by the Joint Chiefs of Staff. On request of the Chief of Mission, such Representatives shall, in addition to their responsibilities under the Charter of the United Nations, serve as advisers in the United States Mission to the United Nations.
3. The Chief Mission shall also be responsible for the administration of the Mission, including personnel, budget, obligation and expenditure of funds, and the central administrative services; provided that he shall not be responsible for the internal administration of the personnel, budget, and obligation and expenditure of funds of the United States Representatives in the Military Staff Committee. The Chief of Mission shall discharge his responsibilities under this paragraph in accordance with such rules and regulations as the Secretary of State may from time to time prescribe.
4. This order shall be published in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
April 28, 1947