WHEREAS I find that as a result of labor disturbances there are interruptions, and threatened interruptions, of the operations of the transportation systems owned or operated by the carriers by railroad named in the list attached hereto and made a part hereof; that it has become necessary to take possession and assume control of the said transportation systems for purposes that are needful or desirable in connection with the present emergency; and that the exercise, as hereinafter specified, of the powers vested in me is necessary to insure in the national interest the operation of the said transportation systems:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the power and authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, including the act of August 29, 1916, 39 Stat. 619, 645, as President of the United States and as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. Possession, control, and operation of the transportation systems owned or operated by the carriers by railroad named in the list attached hereto and hereby made a part hereof are hereby taken and assumed, through the Secretary of the Army (hereinafter referred to as the Secretary), as of 12 o'clock noon, Eastern Standard Time, May 10, 1948; but such possession and control shall be limited to real and personal property and other assets used or useful in connection with the operation of the transportation systems of the said carriers. If and when the Secretary finds it necessary or appropriate for carrying out the purposes of this order, he may, by appropriate order, take possession and assume control of all or any part of any transportation system of any other carrier by railroad located in the continental United States.
2. The Secretary is directed to operate or to arrange for the operation of, the transportation systems taken under or pursuant to this order in such manner as he deems necessary to assure to the fullest possible extent continuous and uninterrupted transportation service.
3. In carrying out the provisions of this order the Secretary may act through or with the aid of such public or private instrumentalities or persons as he may designate, and may delegate such of his authority as he may deem necessary or desirable. The Secretary may issue such general and special orders, rules, and regulations as may be necessary or appropriate for carrying out the provisions, and to accomplish the purposes of this order. All Federal agencies shall comply with the orders of the Secretary issued pursuant to this order and shall cooperate to the fullest extent of their authority with the Secretary in carrying out the provisions of this order.
4. The Secretary shall permit the management of carriers whose transportation systems have been taken under, or which may be taken pursuant to, the provisions of this order to continue their respective managerial functions to the maximum degree possible consistent with the purposes of this order. Except so far as the Secretary shall from time to time otherwise provide by appropriate order or regulation, the boards of directors, trustees, receivers officers, and employees of such carriers shall continue the operation of the said transportation systems including the collection and disbursement of funds thereof, in the usual and ordinary course of the business of the carriers, in the names of their respective companies, and by means of any agencies, associations, or other instrumentalities now utilized by the carriers.
5. Except so far as the Secretary shall from time to time otherwise determine and provide by appropriate orders or regulations, existing contracts and agreements to which carriers whose transportation systems have been taken under, or which may be taken pursuant to, the provisions of this order are parties, shall remain in full force and effect. Nothing in this order shall have the effect of suspending or releasing any obligation owed to any carrier affected hereby, and all payments shall be made by the persons obligated to the carrier to which they are or may become due. Except as the Secretary may otherwise direct, there may be made, in due course, payments of dividends on stock, and of principal, interest, sinking funds, and all other distributions upon bonds, debentures, and other obligations; and expenditures may be made for other ordinary corporate purposes.
6. Until further order of the President or the Secretary, the said transportation systems shall be managed and operated under the terms and conditions of employment in effect at the time possession is taken under this order, without prejudice to existing equities or to the effectiveness of such retroactive provisions as may be included in the final settlement of the disputes between the carriers and the workers. The Secretary shall recognize the right of the workers to continue their membership in labor organizations, to bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing with the representatives of the owners of the carriers, subject to the provisions of applicable law, as to disputes between the carriers and the workers; and to engage in concerted activities for the purpose of such collective bargaining or for other mutual aid or protection, provided that in his opinion such concerted activities do not interfere with the operation of the transportation systems taken hereunder, or which may be taken pursuant hereto.
7. Except as this order otherwise provides and except as the Secretary may otherwise direct, the operation of the transportation systems taken hereunder, or which may be taken pursuant hereto, shall be in conformity with the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended, the Railway Labor Act, as amended, the Safety Appliance Acts, the Employers' Liability Acts, and other applicable Federal and State laws, Executive orders, local ordinances, and rules and regulations issued pursuant to such laws, Executive orders, and ordinances.
8. Except with the prior written consent of the Secretary, no receivership, reorganization, or similar proceeding affecting any carrier whose transportation system is taken hereunder, or which may be taken pursuant hereto, shall be instituted; and no attachment by mesne process, garnishment, execution, or otherwise shall be levied on or against any of the real or personal property or other assets of any such carrier; provided that nothing herein shall prevent or require approval by the Secretary of any action authorized or required by any interlocutory or final decree of any United States court in reorganization proceedings now pending under the Bankruptcy Act or in any equity receivership cases now pending.
9. The Secretary is authorized to furnish protection for persons employed or seeking employment in or with the transportation systems of which possession is taken hereunder, or which may be taken pursuant hereto; to furnish protection for such transportation systems; and to furnish equipment, manpower, and other facilities or services deemed necessary to carry out the provisions, and to accomplish the purposes, of this order.
10. From and after 12 o'clock noon, Eastern Standard Time, on the said 10th day of May, 1948, all properties taken under this order shall be conclusively deemed to be within the possession and control of the United States without further act or notice.
11. Possession, control, and operation of any transportation system, or any part thereof, or of any real or personal property taken under this order, or which maybe taken pursuant hereto, shall be terminated by the Secretary when he determines that such possession, control, and operation are no longer necessary to carry out the provisions, and to accomplish the purposes, of this order.
LIST
EASTERN REGION
Akron, Canton & Youngstown Railroad Co.
Ann Arbor Railroad Company
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company
B & O Chicago Terminal R.R. Co.
Curtis Bay Railroad Co.
Strouds Creek & Muddlety R.R.
Bessemer & Lake Erie Railroad Company
Boston and Maine Railroad
Brooklyn Eastern District Terminal
Buffalo Creek Railroad
Bush Terminal Railroad Company
Canadian National Railways
Canadian Nat'l. Rys.-Lines in New England
Champlain & St. Lawrence Railroad
United States & Canada Railroad
St. Clair Tunnel Company
Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
Central Vermont Railway, Inc.
Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Co.
Pere Marquette District
Fort Street Union Depot Co.
Chicago, Indianapolis & Louisville Ry. Co.
Cincinnati Union Terminal Company
Delaware & Hudson Railroad Corporation
Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R.R. Co.
Detroit and Toledo Shore Line R.R. Co.
Detroit Terminal Railroad Company
Detroit, Toledo & Ironton Railroad Co.
Erie Railroad Company
Grand Trunk Western Railroad Company
Huntingdon & Broad Top Mt. R. R. & Coal Co.
Indianapolis Union Railway Co.
Jay Street Connecting R.R Co.
Lake Terminal Railroad Company
Lehigh & New England Railroad Company
Lehigh Valley Railroad Company
Maine Central Railroad Company
Portland Terminal Company
McKeesport Connecting Railroad
Monongahela Railway Company
Mountour Railroad Company
New York Central R.R. (Full Line Agreements)
NYC RR-Buffalo and East
NYC RR-West of Buffalo
Michigan Central Railroad
C.C.C. & St. L. Railway
Peoria & Eastern Railway
L. & J.B. & Railroad Co.
Boston & Albany Railroad
Indiana Harbor Belt Railroad
Chicago River & Indiana (C.J. Ry.)
Pittsburgh & Lake Erie R.R. (L.E. & E)
Cleveland Union Terminals
Ohio Central
Federal Valley
New York, Chicago & St. Louis RR. Co.
New York Dock Railway
New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad Co.
Northampton & Bath Railroad Company
Pennsylvania Railroad Company
Baltimore & Eastern Railroad Co.
Long Island Rail Road Company
Pennsylvania-Reading Seashore Lines
Pittsburgh & West Virginia Railway Co.
Pittsburgh, Chartiers & Youghiogheny Ry.
Reading Company
River Terminal Railway Co.
Staten Island Rapid Transit Railway
Union Freight R.R. Co. (Boston)
Washington Terminal Company
Wheeling & Lake Erie Railway Co.
Lorain & West Virginia Railway Co.
SOUTHEASTERN REGION
Atlantic Coast Line
Atlanta & West Point R.R.
Western Railway of Alabama
Atlanta Joint Terminals
Central of Georgia Ry.
Charleston & Western Carolina Ry.
Chesapeake & Ohio-Chesapeake Dist.
Clinchfield R.R.
Florida East Coast Ry.
Georgia R.R.
Gulf, Mobile & Ohio R.R.
Jacksonville Terminal Company
Kentucky & Indiana Terminal R.R.
Louisville & Nashville R.R.
Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Ry.
Norfolk & Portsmouth Belt Line R.R.
Norfolk & Western Ry.
Richmond Fredericksburg & Potomac R.R.
Seaboard Air Line Ry.
Southern
Alabama Great Southern
Cin., Burnside & Cumberland River Ry.
Cin., New Orleans & Texas Pacific Ry.
Georgia Southern & Florida Ry.
Harriman & Northeastern R.R.
New Orleans & Northeastern
New Orleans Terminal
St. Johns River Terminal
Tennessee Central Railroad
Virginian Ry.
WESTERN REGION 
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry.
Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry.
Panhandle & Santa Fe Ry.
Belt Ry. Co. of Chicago
Burlington-Rock Island R.R.
Camas Prairie R.R.
Chicago & Eastern Illinois R.R.
Chicago & Illinois Midland Ry.
Chicago & North Western Ry.
Chicago & Western Indiana R.R.
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R.R.
Chicago Great Western Ry. (Inc. S. St. Paul Terminal)
Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul & Pacific R.R.
Chicago, Terre Haute & Southeastern Ry.
Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry.
Chicago, St. Paul, Minneapolis & Omaha Ry.
Colorado & Southern Ry.
Colorado & Wyoming Ry.
Davenport, Rock Island & Northwestern Ry.
Denver & Rio Grande Western R. R.
Denver & Rio Grande Western R.R. (Former D&SL)
Des Moines Union Ry. 
Duluth, Missabe & Iron Range Ry. (Iron Range Div.)
Duluth, Missabe & Iron Range Ry. (Missabe Div.)
Duluth, Winnipeg & Pacific Ry.
East St. Louis Junction R.R.
Elgin, Joliet & Eastern Ry.
Fort Worth & Denver City Ry.
Wichita Valley Ry.
Galveston, Houston & Henderson R.R.
Great Northern Ry.
Green Bay & Western R.R.
Kewaunee, Green Bay & Western R.R.
Gulf Coast Lines-Comprising
Asherton & Gulf Ry.
Asphalt Belt Ry.
Beaumont, Sour Lake & Western Ry.
Houston & Brazos Valley Ry.
Houston North Shore Ry.
Iberia, St. Mary & Eastern R.R.
International-Great Northern R.R.
New Iberia & Northern R.R.
New Orleans, Texas &^ Mexico Ry.
Orange & Northwestern R.R.
Rio Grande City Ry.
St. Louis, Brownsville & Mexico Ry.
San Antonio Southern Ry.
San Antonio, Uvalde & Gulf R.R.
San Benito & Rio Grand Valley Ry.
Sugar Land Ry.
Houston Belt & Terminal Ry.
Illinois Central R.R.
Chicago & Illinois Western R.R.
Kansas City Southern Ry.
Kansas City Terminal Ry.
Los Angeles Junction Ry.
Louisiana & Arkansas Ry.
Manufacturers Ry.
Midland Valley R.R.
Kansas, Oklahoma & Gulf Ry.
Oklahoma City-ADA-Atoka Ry.
Minneapolis & St. Louis Ry.
Railway Transfer Co. of City of Minneapolis
Minneapolis, St. Paul & Sault Ste. Marie R.R.
Duluth, South Shore & Atlantic Ry.
Mineral Range R.R.
Minnesota Transfer Ry.
Missouri-Kansas-Texas R.R.
Missouri-Kansas-Texas R.R. Co. of Texas.
Missouri Pacific R.R.
Northern Pacific Ry.
Northern Pacific Terminal Co. of Oregon
Northwestern Pacific R.R.
Ogden Union Ry. & Depot Co.
Oregon, California & Eastern Ry.
Peoria & Pekin Union Ry.
Port Terminal Railroad Association.
St. Joseph Terminal R.R.
St. Louis-San Francisco Ry.
St. Louis, San Francisco & Texas Ry.
St. Louis Southwestern Ry.
St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. of Texas.
St. Paul Union Depot Co.
San Diego & Arizona Eastern Ry.
Sioux City Terminal Ry.
Southern Pacific Co. (Pacific Lines)-excluding former El Paso & Southwestern System.
Southern Pacific Co.-Former El Paso & Southwestern System.
Southern Pacific Co.-Former Arizona Eastern R.R.-Phoenix Dist.
Spokane, Portland & Seattle Ry.
Oregon Electric Ry.
Oregon Trunk Ry.
Terminal Railroad Association of St. Louis.
Texas & New Orleans R.R.
Texas & Pacific Ry.
Abilene & Southern Ry.
Fort Worth Belt Ry.
Texas-New Mexico Ry.
Texas Short Line Ry.
Weatherford, Mineral Wells & Northwestern Ry.
Texas Mexican Ry.
Texas Pacific-Missouri Pacific Terminal R.R. of New Orleans.
Union Pacific R.R.
Union Railway Co. (Memphis).
Union Terminal Co. (Dallas).
Wabash R.R.-Lines West of Detroit and Toledo.
Wabash R.R.-Lines east of Detroit (Buffalo Div.).
Western Pacific R.R. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 10, 1948