By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. (a) The Administrator for Economic Cooperation shall perform the functions heretofore performed by the Secretary of State (with respect to providing relief assistance to the people of countries devastated by war and discharging related duties under the joint resolution of May 31, 1947 (Public Law 84, 80th Congress)), pursuant to the provisions of Executive Order No. 9864 of May 31, 1947; and the Administrator may perform such functions directly or through the field administrator appointed pursuant to section 4 of the said joint resolution r through such officers or employees of the Economic Cooperation Administration as he may designate to act on his behalf. The provisions of the said Executive order, as amended by this paragraph, shall be applicable to the operations of the Economic Cooperation Administration under the said joint resolution.
(b) There shall be transferred to the Economic Cooperation Administration so much of the personnel, records, and property of the Department of State which relate to said functions, and so much of the unexpended balance of funds now available to the Department of State for the purpose of the said joint resolution, as the Secretary of State and the Administrator for Economic Cooperation shall jointly determine to be necessary for use in connection with such functions; provided that any such transfer of funds shall have the approval of the Director of the Bureau of the Budget.
2. Consonant with the provisions of section 14 of the Foreign Aid Act of 1947 (Public Law 389, 80th Congress), the Administrator for Economic Cooperation shall perform the functions heretofore performed by the Secretary of State pursuant to the provisions of Executive Order No. 9914 of December 26, 1947; and the provisions of that order, as amended by this paragraph, shall be applicable to the operations of the Economic cooperation Administration under the said Act. The Administrator for Economic Cooperation shall consult with the Secretary of State before entering into any agreement or amendment of any agreement under section 5 of the said Foreign Aid Act of 1947.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 19, 1948