WHEREAS the United Nations and other intergovernmental organizations of which the United States is a member have need for statistical information which can be supplied by the Government of the United States; and
WHEREAS the burden imposed on this Government in connection with providing such information to such organizations should be the minimum compatible with adequacy of information; and
WHEREAS a systematic procedure for furnishing such information will conserve effort and improve the quality and comparability of the data furnished:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes, including section 8 of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act (59 Stat. 515; 22 U.S.C. 286f), and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Except as provided in section 2 hereof, the Director of the Bureau of the Budget, hereinafter referred to as the Director, (a) shall determine, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, what statistical information shall be provided in response to official requests received by the United States Government from any intergovernmental organization of which this country is a member, and (b) shall determine which Federal executive agency or agencies shall prepare the statistical information thus to be provided. The statistical information so prepared shall be transmitted to the requesting intergovernmental organization through established channels by the Secretary of state or by any Federal executive agency now or hereafter authorized by the Secretary of State to transmit such information.
SECTION 2. (a) The National Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial Problems, hereinafter referred to as the National Advisory Council, shall determine, after consultation with the Director, what information is essential in order that the United States Government may comply with official requests for information received from the International Monetary Fund or the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
(b) The Director shall determine which Federal executive agency or agencies shall collect or make available information found essential under section 2(a) hereof.
(c) In the collection of information pursuant to a determination made by the Director under section 2(b) hereof in response to a request under article VIII, section 5, of the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund, the authority conferred on the President by section 8 of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act to require any person to furnish such information, by subpoena or otherwise, may be exercised by each of the following-named agencies:
Department of Agriculture
Department of Commerce
Department of the Interior
Department of Labor
Department of the Treasury
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Federal Communications Commission
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Federal Power Commission
Federal Trade Commission
Interstate Commerce Commission
Securities and Exchange Commission
United States Maritime Commission
United States Tariff Commission
(d) The information collected or made available under section 2 of this order shall be submitted to the National Advisory Council for review and for presentation to the said Fund or Bank.
(e) As used in this order, the word "person" means an individual, partnership, corporation, or association.
SECTION 3. The Director's determination of any matter under section 1 or section 2(b) of this order shall be made after consulting appropriate Federal executive agencies and giving due consideration to any responsibility now exercised by any of them in relation to an intergovernmental organization.
SECTION 4. This order shall not be construed to authorize the Director or the National Advisory Council to provide, or to require any Federal executive agency to provide, to an intergovernmental organization (a) information during any period of time when the agency having primary responsibility for security of the specified information declares that it must be withheld from the intergovernmental organization in the interest of military security, or (b) information which any Federal executive agency is required by law to maintain on a confidential basis.
SECTION 5. The Director and the National Advisory Council are authorized to prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out their respective responsibilities under this order.
SECTION 6. To the extent that this order conflicts with any previous Executive order, the provisions of this order shall control.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
February 8, 1949