By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 section 3228(f) of the Internal Revenue Code provides in part as follow:
Opiate. The word "opiate," as used in this part and subchapter A of chapter 23 shall mean any drug (as defined in the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act) found by the Secretary of the Treasury, after due notice and opportunity for public hearing, to have an addiction-forming or addiction-sustaining liability similar to morphine or cocaine, and proclaimed by the President to have been so found by the Secretary. * * * ;
And Whereas
 the Secretary of the Treasury, after due notice and opportunity for public hearing, has found that each of the following named drugs and their salts has addition-forming or addition-sustaining liability similar to morphine, and that in the public interest this finding should be effective immediately:
1. Bemidone, 1-methyl-4-metahydroxy-phenyl-piperidine-4-carboxylic acid ethyl ester.
2. NU-1196, ?-1,3-dimethyl-4-phenyl-4-propionoxy piperidine (also known as Nisentil).
3. NU-1779, ?-1,3-dimethyl-4-phenyl-4-propionoxy piperidine.
4. NU-1932, ?-1-methyl-3-ethyl-4-phenyl-4-propionoxy piperidine.
5. N.I.H.-2933, 6-dimethylamino-4,4-diphenyl-3-heptanol.
6. N.I.H.-2953, 6-dimethylamino-4,4-diphenyl-3-acetoxyheptane.
7. CB-11, 6-morpholino-4,4-diphenyl-3-heptanone (also known as Heptazone or Heptalgin).
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim that the Secretary of the Treasury has found that each of the aforementioned drugs and their salts has an addition-forming and addition-sustaining liability similar to morphine, and that in the public interest this finding should be effective immediately.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this 24th day of August in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-fourth. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
DEAN ACHESON,
Secretary of State.