By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in the President by section 18 of the Pay Readjustment Act of 1942 (56 Stat. 368), and for the purpose of carrying into effect certain provisions of section 14 of the said Act as amended by section 3 of the act of March 25, 1948 Public Law 460, 80th Congress, Executive Order No. 9195 of July 7, 1942, as amended, prescribing regulations relating to aerial flights by personnel of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, and national Guard, and officers of the Public Health Service detailed for duty with the Coast Guard, is hereby further amended as follows:
1. The words "reserve components of the armed services" are substituted for the words "National Guard" occurring in the title and preamble of the said order. 
2. Paragraph 11 of the said order is amended to read as follows:
11. For each officer, warrant officer, or enlisted person of the reserve components of the armed services not in the active military service of the United States who is in an inactive-duty-training pay status or drill pay status and who is required to participate regularly and frequently in aerial flights by orders of competent authority, the following requirements are prescribed:
(a) During one calendar month: 4 or more flights totaling at least 72 minutes (1.2 hours), or in lieu thereof to be in the air a total of at least 96 minutes (1.6 hours).
(b) During two consecutive calendar months when the requirements of subparagraph (a) above have not been met: 8 or more flights totaling at least 144 minutes (2.4 hours), or in lieu thereof to be in the air a total of at least 192 minutes (3.2 hours).
(c). During three consecutive calendar months when the requirements of subparagraph (b) above have not been met: 12 or more flights totaling at least 216 minutes (3.6 hours), or in lieu thereof to be in the air a total of at least 288 minutes (4.8 hours).
(d) Such required flights may be made at ordered drills, or equivalent periods of training, instruction, or duty, of the organization to which such officer, warrant officer, or enlisted person belongs or is attached, or at other times in accordance with regulations prescribed by the head of the department concerned.
(e) For fractions of a calendar month, the number of aerial flights and the time in the air required shall bear the same ratio to the number of flights and the time in the air required for a full calendar month as the period in question bears to the entire month.
(f) The duties prescribed above shall be in addition to any other duty or duties which may be required of such officers, warrant officers, or enlisted persons.
3. This order shall become effective on June 1, 1949, except that as to personnel entitled to increased pay for performing aerial flights under section 313 of the Naval Reserve Act of 1938 it shall become effective on July 1, 1949.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 27, 1949