By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 81 of title 2 of the Canal Zone Code, as amended by section 3 of the act of July 9, 1937, 50 Stat. 487, and by section 256 of title 2 of the Canal Zone Code, as added by section 10 of the act of September 26, 1950, 64 Stat. 1042, and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. There are hereby transferred to the Panama Railroad Company, a corporate agency and instrumentality of the United States which upon the effective date of this order shall, pursuant to the said act of September 26, 1950, be known as the Panama Canal Company, (a) the Panama Canal (the waterway), together with all the facilities, buildings, structures, and improvements related thereto, and (b) all other facilities, buildings, structures, and improvements whatsoever now maintained and operated by The Panama Canal, an independent agency of the United States which upon the effective date of this order shall, pursuant to the said act of September 26, 1950, be known as the Canal Zone Government: Provided, however, that there are excepted from such transfer the following-described facilities, buildings, structures, and improvements, situated on the Isthmus of Panama, which shall be for use and administration by the agency which upon the effective date of this order shall, pursuant to the said act of September 26, 1950, be known as the Canal Zone Government:
(a) The following-described buildings and structures situated in the Canal Zone:
(1) The Administration Building (Bldg. No. 1105), Cristobal.
(2) The Civil Affairs Buildings and Annex (Bldgs. Nos. 0610 and 0610-B), Ancon.
(3) The Dentist's Office (Bldg. No. 320), Ancon.
(4) The Office Building of the Experimental Garden (Bldg. No. 16), Summit.
(b) All buildings and structures of the Health Bureau of The Panama Canal.
(c) The following-described classes of civic buildings and structures:
(1) Schoolhouses and such recreational buildings and structures as are maintained in connection with the schools' program.
(2) Police buildings and structures.
(3) Prison buildings and structures.
(4) Fire stations and related structures.
(5) Courthouses.
(6) Post office buildings
(d) Those general improvements in permanent town sites in the Canal Zone which consist of grading, excavation, fills, and landscaping.
(e) The improvements consisting of roads, streets, and sidewalks.
(f) The sewerage systems in the Canal Zone.
(g) The street lighting systems.
(h) The cemeteries in the Canal Zone.
SEC. 2. There are hereby transferred to the Panama Railroad Company (a) all property other than facilities, buildings, structures, and improvements, (b) all records, (c) all other assets, and (d) all contracts obligations, and liabilities of The Panama Canal immediately prior to the effective date of this order, with the exception of (a) property other than facilities, buildings, structures, and improvements, (b) records, (c) other assets, and (d) contracts, obligations, and liabilities, shown in the accounts and records of The Panama Canal as of June 30, 1951, as appertaining to civil government, including health, sanitation, and protection: Provided, however, that nothing in this section shall be construed as effecting a transfer to the Panama Railroad Company of any of the unobligated balance of the appropriation for "Construction of additional facilities, Panama Canal" remaining on June 30, 1951. 
SEC. 3. There are hereby transferred to the Panama Railroad Company all of the personnel on the rolls of The Panama Canal immediately prior to the effective date of this order with the exception of the Governor of The Panama Canal and of the personnel of the Civil Affairs Bureau, the courts, the Health Bureau, the Civil Intelligence Branch, and the Civil Defense unit.
SEC. 4. Nothing in this order shall be construed as effecting a transfer to the Panama Railroad Company of any of the right, title, or interest of the United States in or to the lands in the Canal Zone, or in or to any of the lands now owned by the United States and held by The Panama Canal as custodian in territory under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Panama.
SEC. 5. The transfers to the Panama Railroad Company made by this order shall, as provided by law, be deemed to have been accepted and assumed by the said company without the necessity of any act or acts on the part of the company except as otherwise stipulated in section 246 of title 2 of the Canal Zone Code, as added by the act of June 29, 1948, 62 Stat. 1076.
SEC. 6. In view of the transfers made by this order, and in effectuation of the purposes of the said act of September 26, 1950, there are hereby revoked (a) section 17 of Executive Order No. 1888 of February 21, 1914, and (b) the order of the Secretary of War designated as Canal Zone Order No. 4 of January 24, 1947, the provisions of which section and order relate to the assignment of, and rental rates for, quarters furnished employees, and the rates to be charged for supplies and services related to quarters.
SEC. 7. The transfers effected by this order are hereby made subject to the reservation that the President may hereafter make such adjustments or corrections in respect of such transfers as he may deem necessary or expedient.
SEC. 8. This order shall become effective on July 1, 1951.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
June 29, 1951