By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
More than three centuries ago the Pilgrim fathers deemed it fitting to pause in their autumn labors and to give thanks to Almighty God for the abundant yield of the soil of their new homeland. In keeping with that custom, hallowed by generations of observance, our hearts impel us, once again in this autumnal season, to turn in humble gratitude to the Giver of our bounties.
We are profoundly grateful for the blessings bestowed upon us: the preservation of our freedom, so dearly bought and so highly prized; our opportunities for human welfare and happiness, so limitless in their scope; our material prosperity, so far surpassing that of earlier years; and our private spiritual blessings, so deeply cherished by all. For these we offer fervent thanks to God.
With the cooperation of our allies we are striving to attain a permanent peace, and to assure success in achieving that coveted goal we reverently place our faith in the Almighty.
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, according to our treasured tradition, and in conformity with the joint resolution of Congress approved on December 26, 1941, designating the fourth Thursday of November in each year as Thanksgiving Day, do hereby proclaim Thursday, November 22, 1951, as a day of national thanksgiving. Let us all on that day, in our homes and in our places of worship, individually and in groups, render homage to Almighty God. Let us recall the words of the Psalmist, "O give thanks unto the Lord; for He is good: for His mercy endureth forever." Let us also, on the appointed day, seek divine aid in the quest for peace.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this first day of November in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-sixth. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
JAMES E. WEBB,
Acting Secretary of State.