By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 section 5 of the India Emergency Food Aid Act of 1951, approved June 15, 1951, provides that, notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, to the extent that the President, after consultation with appropriate Government officials and representatives of private shipping, finds and proclaims that private shipping is not available on reasonable terms and conditions for transportation of supplies made available under the said Act, the Reconstruction Finance Corporation is authorized and directed to make certain advances to the Department of Commerce as the President shall determine, for activation and operation of vessels for such transportation under the conditions specified in this said section 5; and 
Whereas
 I have consulted with appropriate government officials and representatives of private shipping concerning the availability on reasonable terms and conditions of private shipping for transportation of supplies made available under the said Act, as required by section 5 thereof; and
Whereas
 as a result of such consultation it appears that private shipping is not available on reasonable terms and conditions for transportation of supplies made available under the said Act; and
Whereas
 I accordingly deem it necessary and appropriate to exercise the authority set forth in section 5 of the said Act, in effectuation of the purposes of the Act:
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, including the said India Emergency Food Aid Act of 1951 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) and the act of August 8, 1950, c. 646, 64 Stat. 419, do find and proclaim as follows:
1. After consultation with appropriate Government officials and representatives of private shipping, I find and proclaim that private shipping is not available on reasonable terms and conditions for transportation of supplies made available under the India Emergency Food Aid Act of 1951.
2. The Reconstruction Finance Corporation is hereby authorized and directed to make advances not to exceed in the aggregate $20,000,000 to the Department of Commerce for activation and operation of vessels for such transportation, subject to the terms and conditions of the Act, and in the manner hereinafter specified.
3. The Director of the Bureau of the Budget is hereby authorized and directed to determine the amounts of such advances and the times when they may be made, subject to the limitations and provisions of section 5 of the Act, and the Reconstruction Finance Corporation shall make advances thereunder pursuant only to such determinations by the Director of the Bureau of the Budget.
4. The Secretary of Commerce may place such advances in any funds or accounts available for such purposes, and, pending repayment of such advances, may place receipts from vessel operations in such funds or accounts and may use such receipts for activating and operating vessels.
5. Each officer or agency mentioned in this proclamation may issue such regulations or orders as are deemed necessary to carry out his or its functions under the provisions of the Act and this proclamation.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this nineteenth day of June in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-fifth. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
DEAN ACHESON,
Secretary of State.