WHEREAS the administration of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (hereinafter referred to as the trust territory) was transferred to the Secretary of the Interior by Executive Order No. 10265 of June 29, 1951; and
WHEREAS the purposes of the trusteeship agreement approved by the Security Council of the United Nations on April 2, 1947, and by the United States Government on July 18, 1947, can better be effectuated by placing in the Secretary of the Navy the authority and responsibility for the administration of that portion of the trust territory which includes the islands of Tinian and Saipan:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
1. The administration of that portion of the trust territory which includes the islands of Tinian and Saipan is hereby transferred from the Secretary of the Interior to the Secretary of the Navy, such transfer to become effective on January 1, 1953.
2. When the transfer of administration made by this order becomes effective, the Secretary of the Navy shall take such action as may be necessary and appropriate, and in harmony with applicable law, for the administration of civil government in that portion of the trust territory which includes the island of Tinian and Saipan and shall, subject to such policies as the President may from time to time prescribe and, when appropriate, in collaboration with other departments or agencies of the Government, carry out the obligations assumed by the United States as the administering authority of the trust territory under the terms of the trusteeship agreement approved by the United States on July 18, 1947, and under the Charter of the United Nations: Provided, however, That the authority to specify parts or all of either of such islands as closed for security reason and to determine the extent to which Articles 87 and 83 of the Charter of the United Nations shall be applicable to such closed areas, in accordance with Article 13 of the trusteeship agreement, shall be exercised by the President: And provided further, That the Secretary of the Navy shall keep the activities on such islands affecting the foreign policy of the United States and shall consult the Secretary of State on questions of policy concerning such islands which relate to the foreign policy of the United States, and that all relations between departments or agencies of the Government and appropriate organs of the United Nations with respect to such islands shall be conducted through the Secretary of State.
3. The executive departments and agencies of the Government are authorized and directed to cooperate with the Departments of the Navy and Interior in the effectuation of the provisions of this order.
4. To the extent that they pertain to the islands of Tinian and Saipan, the provisions of Executive Order No. 10265 of June 29, 1951, shall be superseded by the provision of this order as of the date set out in the paragraph numbered 1, above.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
November 10, 1952