By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 1753 of the Revised Statutes (5 U.S.C. 631), section 2 of the Civil Service Act of January 16, 1883 (22 Stat. 403), and section 3 of the Civil Service Retirement Act of May 29, 1930, as amended, and in order to facilitate the employment of personnel by Federal agencies for service in foreign countries and beyond the continental limits of the United States, and to further the objective of extending the competitive service to Federal positions overseas, the Civil Service Rules are hereby amended by adding Rule VIII reading as follows:
RULE VIII-APPOINTMENTS TO OVERSEAS POSITIONS
SEC. 8.1 Additional authority of the Commission. In addition to authorizing the recruitment and appointment of persons to overseas positions under regulations issued under the preceding Rules, the Commission may, by the regulations prescribed by it, authorize the recruitment and appointment of persons to such positions as provided in section 2 of this Rule. As used in this Rule, "overseas positions" means positions in foreign countries and in other areas beyond the continental limits of the United States, except as provided in section 8.4 hereof.
SEC. 8.2 Appointment of United States citizens. United States citizens may be recruited overseas for appointment to overseas positions in the competitive service without regard to the competitive requirements of the Civil Service Act. Persons so recruited who meet the qualification standards and other requirements of the Commission for overseas positions may be given appointments to be known as "overseas limited appointments." Such appointments shall be of temporary or indefinite duration, and shall not confer the right to acquire a competitive status. The Commission may authorize overseas limited appointments for United States citizens recruited within the continental limits of the United States whenever it determines that it is not feasible to appoint from a civil-service register. Persons serving under appointments made pursuant to this section are hereby excluded from the operation of the Civil Service Retirement Act of May 29, 1930, as amended, unless eligible for retirement benefits by continuity of service or otherwise.
SEC. 8.3 Appointment of persons not citizens of the United States. Persons who are not citizens of the United States may be recruited overseas and appointed to overseas positions without regard to the Civil Service Act.
SEC. 8.4 Positions excepted from the application of this Rule. This Rule shall not apply to positions in Hawaii, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and Alaska, and on the Isthmus of Panama.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
October 26, 1955.