By virtue of the authority vested in me by sections 602 (d), 603, and 605 of Title VI of the act of August 28, 1954, 68 Stat. 908, 909, and by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, I hereby prescribe the following regulations relating to personnel of the Department of Agriculture assigned to service abroad:
SECTION 1. (a) The provisions of Part II—Procedures for Coordination Abroad—of Executive Order No. 10575 of November 6, 1954, shall be applicable to the official activities of persons assigned abroad under authority of Title VI of the said act of August 28, 1954.
(b) The Secretary of Agriculture shall institute and maintain such measures consistent with the said Part II as may be necessary to insure that the official activities of persons assigned abroad under the said Title VI are carried on consonant with United States foreign-policy objectives as defined by the Secretary of State and are effectively coordinated with the activities of representatives of other United States agencies, under the leadership of the Chief of the United States Diplomatic Mission.
(c) Consistent with subsections (a) and (b) of this section, the Secretary of Agriculture shall issue instructions on agricultural matters to persons assigned abroad under authority of the said Title VI.
SEC. 2. Rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of State under authority vested in him by Title IX of the Foreign Service Act of 1946, as heretofore or hereafter amended, or under authority thereunder heretofore or hereafter delegated to him by the President, with respect to allowances and benefits under the said Title IX shall be applicable to personnel assigned abroad under Title VI of the said act of August 28, 1954: Provided, (1) that the Secretary of State, upon request of the Secretary of Agriculture, may prescribe, within existing authority of law and when deemed necessary, special rules and regulations for such personnel; and (2) that the Secretary of Agriculture may, within the limitation of such rules and regulations, prescribe necessary implementing directions. The Secretary of Agriculture may designate employees of the Department of Agriculture to make specific determinations and take specific actions in the application of such rules and regulations to the activities of the Department of Agriculture.
SEC. 3. Such provisions in annual appropriation acts of the Department of State, including such acts hereafter enacted, facilitating the work of the Foreign Service of the United States as the Director of the Bureau of the Budget shall from time to time determine appropriate shall be applicable to activities authorized under Title VI of the said act of August 28, 1954.
This order shall be effective as of September 1, 1954.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
July 28, 1955.