By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 it appears that public lands described as SWY4DTE VI, section 20, Township 39 South, Range 26 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian, which contain no objects of historic or scientific interest were erroneously included in the Hovenweep National Monument in Utah and Colorado by Proclamation No. 1654 of March 2, 1923 (42 Stat. 2299); and
Whereas
 it appears that public lands described as SE V4NE V4 of such section 20 which contain ruin groups worthy of preservation because of their historic and scientific value were erroneously omitted from the monument; and
Whereas
 there are other public lands contiguous to the monument which contain an important ruin group, Cutthroat Castle, an outstanding example of a defensive structure of the thirteenth century, the preservation of which is desirable because of its historic and scientific value; and
Whereas
 it appears that it would be in the public interest to reserve such lands as an addition to such monument:
Now, Therefore, I, Dwight D. Eisenhower
, President of the United States of America, under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 2 of the act of June 8, 1906, 34 Stat. 225 (16 U.S.C. 431), do proclaim as follows:
1. The following-described lands in the State of Utah are hereby excluded from the Hovenweep National Monument:
UTAH, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN
T. 39 8., R. 26 E.,
Sec. 20, SW 1/4 NE 1/4.
The lands hereby excluded from the monument shall not be subject to application, location, settlement, entry, or other forms of appropriation under public land laws until further order of an authorized officer of the Department of the Interior.
2. Subject to valid existing rights, the following-described public lands in the States of Utah and Colorado are hereby reserved and added to and made a part of the Hovenweep National Monument and shall be subject to all laws, rules, and regulations applicable to that monument:
UTAH, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN
T. 39 S., R. 26 E.,
Sec. 20, SE 1/4 NE1/4.
COLORADO, NEW MEXICO PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN
T. 37 N., R. 19 W.,
Sec. 19, SE 1/4 of Lot 11 and E 1/2 SW 1/4 of Lot 11, excepting a portion of Segregated Tract 63 patented to Edward C. Forest.
Warning is hereby expressly given to all unauthorized persons not to appropriate, injure, destroy, or remove any feature of this monument and not to locate or settle upon any of the lands thereof.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set by hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this sixth day of April in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eightieth.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
By the President:
JOHN FOSTER DULLES,
Secretary of State