WHEREAS pursuant to law the Secretary of the Treasury was authorized by Executive Order No. 10539 of June 22, 1954, to cause the Federal Facilities Corporation to be organized; and
WHEREAS the Secretary of the Treasury created the said corporation by charter dated June 30, 1954 (19 F. R. 4041); and
WHEREAS the said charter provided, in part, that the management of the corporation should be vested in an Administrator, who should be appointed by, and be subject to the direction and supervision of, the Secretary of the Treasury, and should receive the salary fixed by the Secretary of the Treasury; and
WHEREAS the Secretary of the Treasury has now amended the said charter to provide that the management of the corporation shall be vested in a Director, who shall be appointed by, and be subject to the direction and supervision of, the Administrator of General Services, and receive the salary fixed by the Administrator of General Services; and
WHEREAS such amendment of the said charter has my approval; and
WHEREAS section 4 of Executive Order No. 10678 of September 20, 1956, now provides that "All matters placed under the administration or jurisdiction of the Corporation by sections 1 and 3 of this order shall be subject to direction and control by the Secretary of the Treasury":
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered, effective as of the close of June 30, 1957, as follows:
SECTION 1. Section 4 of Executive Order No. 10678 of September 20, 1956 (21 F. R. 7199), is hereby amended by deleting therefrom the words "Secretary of the Treasury" and inserting in lieu thereof the words "Administrator of General Services."
SEC. 2. The certificates and other documents referred to in section 8 of the charter of the Federal Facilities Corporation shall be assigned and delivered by the Secretary of the Treasury to the Administrator of General Services.
SEC. 3. Any provisions of any prior Executive orders inconsistent with the foregoing provisions of this order are hereby amended accordingly.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
July 11, 1957.