By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. There shall be in the White House Office an official who shall be appointed by the President, shall have the title "Special Assistant to the President for Personnel Management," and shall receive compensation at such rate as the President, consonant with law, may prescribe.
SEC. 2. The Special Assistant to the President for Personnel Management shall:
(a) Assist the President in the execution of his duties with respect to personnel management, and advise and assist the President concerning personnel-management actions to be taken by or under the direction of the President, exclusive of actions with respect to Presidential appointments.
(b) Assist the President in the formulation and execution of his civilian personnel-management program, the establishment of policies and standards for the executive departments and agencies relating to the said program, and the evaluation of departmental and agency personnel-management programs and operations under such policies and standards.
(c) Assist the President in keeping informed with respect to activities of and developments in the executive departments and agencies which affect, or tend to determine, the personnel-management policies of the executive departments and agencies.
(d) Undertake on behalf of the President, and in collaboration with the Bureau of the Budget, a program designed to raise the level of effectiveness of personnel management in the executive departments and agencies, to improve steadily all personnel-management systems, and to bring about the proper coordination in personnel management among the executive departments and agencies.
SEC. 3. (a) Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) of this section, the United States Civil Service Commission or the Chairman thereof, as the case may be, shall, in performing the following, consult with the Special Assistant to the President for Personnel Management: (1) Any function vested by law in the President and by him delegated or otherwise assigned to the United States Civil Service Commission or to the Chairman thereof, and (2) any function vested by law in the said Commission or in the said Chairman which (1) is required by law to be performed with or subject to the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, and (ii) has been authorized by the President to be performed without his approval, ratification, or other action.
(b) The Special Assistant to the President for Personnel Management may, from time to time and partly or wholly,
(1) exclude any specific matter or matters from the operation of the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, and
(2) terminate any exclusion effected under this subsection (b).
(c) All rules, regulations, policies, determinations, instructions, requirements, or other actions of the United States Civil Service Commission or of the Chairman thereof, as the case may be, relating to any of the functions described in section 3 (a) of this order and in effect on the date of this order shall remain in effect until, and except as, hereafter revoked, amended, modified, or superseded by proper authority.
SEC. 4. The Special Assistant to the President for Personnel Management shall perform his functions under this order with the assistance of such personnel of the White House Office as may be provided for that purpose, and, as may be appropriate, with the assistance of designated personnel of executive departments and agencies.
SEC. 5. As used herein, the term "function" embraces duty, power, responsibility, authority, and discretion, and the term "performing" may be construed to mean exercising.
SEC. 6. Executive Order No. 10452 of May 1, 1953, entitled "Providing for the Performance by the Chairman of the Civil Service Commission of Certain Functions Relating to Personnel Management", is hereby revoked.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
September 16, 1957.