By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 on February 1, 1947, the President issued Proclamation No. 2715 (3 CFR, 1943-1948 Comp., p. 102) under the authority of section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended (7 U. S. C. 624), limiting the quantity of harsh or rough cotton having a staple of less than three-fourths of one inch in length which might be entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption in any year commencing September 20 in 1946 and in subsequent years; and
Whereas
 subsection (d) of the said section 22 provides that after investigation, report, finding, and declaration in the manner provided in the case of a proclamation issued pursuant to subsection (b) of the said section 22, any proclamation or provision thereof may be terminated by the President whenever he finds and proclaims that the circumstances requiring the proclamation or provision thereof no longer exist; and
Whereas
 the United States Tariff Commission has made a supplemental investigation under the provisions of subsection (d) of the said section 22 and has reported to me its findings and recommendations made in connection therewith; and
Whereas
, on the basis of such supplemental investigation and report of findings and recommendations of the said Tariff Commission made in connection therewith, I find that the circumstances requiring the quota established for the said harsh or rough cotton by the said Proclamation No. 2715 of February 1, 1947, no longer exist:
Now, Therefore, I, Dwight D. Eisenhower
, President of the United States of America, under the authority vested in me by the said section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended, do hereby proclaim that the provisions of the said Proclamation No. 2715 of February 1, 1947, establishing an import quota on harsh or rough cotton having a staple of less than three-fourths of one inch in length are hereby terminated, effective immediately: Provided, however, that the modification made by the said proclamation of Proclamation No. 2351 of September 5, 1939, by deleting therefrom, wherever they appeared therein, the words "and chiefly used in the manufacture of blankets and blanketing" shall continue in full force and effect.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this 28th day of January in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-second.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
By the President:
CHRISTIAN A. HERTER,
Acting Secretary of State