By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 the Fort Pulaski National Monument on Cockspur Island at the mouth of the Savannah River, Georgia, was established by Proclamation No. 1713 of October 15, 1924, upon the site of the old fortifications on that island, and, as enlarged by the act of June 26, 1936, 49 Stat. 1979, includes certain adjacent areas on the island formerly under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of War; and
Whereas
 the Cockspur Island Lighthouse Reservation, situated on a small island near the southeasterly shore of Cockspur Island, contains an old abandoned lighthouse which is contemporary with Fort Pulaski and should be preserved because of its historic interest; and
Whereas
 such reservation has been declared excess to the needs of the Department of the Treasury, and has been reported to the General Services Administration f or disposition; and
Whereas
 the General Services Administration is agreeable to the transfer of such reservation to the Department of the Interior for inclusion in the Fort Pulaski National Monument; and
Whereas
 a small Federally owned island, known as Daymark Island, containing approximately 1.5 acres of land at high tide, situated close to the northeastern shore of Cockspur Island and gradually becoming an accretion thereto, is required for the proper care, protection, and management of the objects of historic interest situated within the area of the Fort Pulaski National Monument; and
Whereas
 it appears that it would be in the public interest to reserve the Cockspur Island Lighthouse Reservation and Daymark Island, as hereinafter described, as parts of the Fort Pulaski National Monument:
Now, Therefore, I, Dwight D. Eisenhower
, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 2 of the act of June 8, 1906, 34 Stat. 225 (16 II. S. C. 431), do proclaim that, subject to valid existing rights, the following-described lands are hereby added to, and reserved as parts of, the Fort Pulaski National Monument, and shall be subject to all laws, rules, and regulations applicable to that monument:
(1) That certain tract of land, about 1 acre in area, known as the Cockspur Island Lighthouse Reservation, situate near the south end of Cockspur Island at Latitude 32째01' N., and Longitude 80째53' W., and
(2) That certain tract of land, about 1.5 acres in area, known as Daymark Island and depicted on U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey Chart C. & G. S. 440, Savannah River-Wassaw Sound, Revised 12/23/57, being an undesignated island in shoal water at Latitude 32째02' N., and Longitude 80째53' W. on the right bank of the Savannah River.
This proclamation shall become effective upon the effective date of the transfer of the Cockspur Island Lighthouse Reservation, as described herein, to the Department of the Interior.
Warning is hereby expressly given to all unauthorized persons not to appropriate, injure, destroy, or remove any feature of these lands and not to locate or settle upon any part thereof.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this fourteenth day of August in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-third.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
By the President:
CHRISTIAN A. HERTER,
Acting Secretary of State