By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 2 of the Civil Service Act (22 Stat. 403) and section 1753 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (5 TJ.S.C. 631), and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. (a) Except as provided by subsection (b) of this section and by section 4 hereof, any employee of the United States Government or of the District of Columbia Government who on the date of this order is serving in a position in the competitive service under an indefinite appointment or a temporary appointment without a definite time limitation may have his appointment converted to a career or career-conditional appointment: Provided, that such employee—
(i) shall have completed two years of continuous service immediately preceding the date of this order in a competitive position or positions;
(ii) shall be recommended for the benefits of this order by his agency within one year after the date of this order;
(iii) shall have completed, prior to the date of recommendation by his agency, a total of continuous or intermittent satisfactory service aggregating not less than three years in a competitive position or positions;
(iv) during the period beginning January 23, 1955, and ending on the date of this order, shall have passed a qualifying examination for a position in the competitive service in which he served during such period, or shall meet such noncompetitive examination standards as the Civil Service Commission shall prescribe with respect to the position held at the time of the agency recommendation for conversion of his appointment; and
(v) shall meet the requirements prescribed by the Civil Service Commission under section 5 of this order.
(b) The requirements of paragraphs (i) and (iii) of subsection (a) of this section shall not apply to substitute employees of the Postal Field Service. In lieu of such requirements, any such employee, during each year of the three-year period ending on the date that conversion of his appointment is recommended, shall have been paid for at least 700 hours of satisfactory work in a competitive position or positions for which the salary is fixed by the Postal Field Service Compensation Act of 1955, as amended (39 U.S.C. 951-1038). The conversion of the appointment of a substitute employee shall be effected only as career substitute vacancies are available, under applicable law, in the Postal Field Service.
SEC. 2. For the purposes of section 1 hereof (a) "status-quo" employees shall be considered as serving under indefinite appointments, and (b) "service" shall include military service if the employee shall have left a competitive position to enter the armed forces of the United States and shall have been re-employed in a competitive position within 120 days after discharge under honorable conditions.
SEC. 3. Any person who left a competitive position to enter the armed forces of the United States who would meet the requirements of section 1 except for absence in the armed forces on the date of this order and who is reemployed by an agency in a competitive position within 120 days after discharge from the armed forces under honorable conditions may have his appointment converted If he is recommended by such agency within ninety days after his reemployment and qualifies in such examination as the Civil Service Commission may prescribe.
SEC. 4. This order shall not apply to postmasters or rural carriers, or to employees serving under overseas limited appointments of indefinite or fixed duration.
SEC. 5. The Civil Service Commission may prescribe such regulations as may be necessary for carrying out the provisions of this order.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
June 7, 1960.