WHEREAS a dispute exists between certain carriers represented by the New York Harbor Carriers' Conference Committee, designated in List A attached hereto and hereby made a part hereof, and certain of their employees represented by labor organizations, members of the Railroad Marine Harbor Council, AFL-CIO, designated in List B attached hereto and hereby made a part hereof; and
WHEREAS this dispute has not heretofore been adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended; and
WHEREAS this dispute, in the judgment of the National Mediation Board, threatens substantially to interrupt interstate commerce to a degree such as to deprive a section of the country of essential transportation service:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 10 of the Railway Labor Act, as amended (45 U.S.C. 160), I hereby create a board of three members, to be appointed by me, to investigate this dispute. No member of the board shall be pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of railroad employees or any carrier.
The board shall report its findings to the President with respect to the dispute within thirty days from the date of this order.
As provided by section 10 of the Railway Labor Act, as amended, from this date and for thirty days after the board has made its report to the President, no change, except by agreement, shall be made by carriers represented by the New York Harbor Carriers' Conference Committee, or by their employees, in the conditions out of which the dispute arose.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
September 28, 1960.
List A
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad
Brooklyn Eastern District Terminal
Bush Terminal Railroad
Central Railroad Company of New Jersey
Delaware, Lackawanna & Western Railroad
Brie Railroad
Lehigh Valley Railroad
New York Central Railroad
New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad
Pennsylvania Railroad
Reading Company
List B
International Organization Masters, Mates & Pilots
United Association Local No. 1
United Association Local No. 3
Associated Maritime Workers Local No. 3
Marine Engineers Beneficial Association Local No. 33