By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
, pursuant to section 3(a) of the Great Lakes Pilotage Act of 1960 (Public Law 86-555; 74 Stat. 259), the President is directed to designate and by proclamation announce those United States waters of the Great Lakes in which registered vessels of the United States and foreign vessels shall be required to have in their service a United States registered pilot or a Canadian registered pilot for the waters concerned; and
Whereas
 the aforesaid section 3(a) provides that these designations shall be made with due regard to the public interest, the effective utilization of navigable waters, marine safety, and the foreign relations of the United States:
Now, Therefore, I, Dwight D. Eisenhower
, President of the United States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 3(a) of the Great Lakes Pilotage Act of 1960, do hereby designate and proclaim the following areas in which registered vessels of the United States and foreign vessels shall be required to have in their service a United States registered pilot or a Canadian registered pilot for the waters concerned, on and after the effective date of regulations issued by the Secretary of Commerce pursuant to the Act:
(1) District 1. All United States waters of the St. Lawrence River between the international boundary at St. Regis and a line at the head of the river running (at approximately 127° true) between Carruthers Point Light and South Side Light extended to the New York shore.
(2) District 2. All United States waters of Lake Erie westward of a line running (at approximately 026° true) from Sandusky Pierhead Light at Cedar Point to Southeast Shoal Light; all waters contained within the arc of a circle of one mile radius eastward of Sandusky Pierhead Light; the Detroit River; Lake St. Clair; the St. Clair River, and northern approaches thereto south of latitude 43°05'30" N.
(3) District 3. All United States waters of the St. Marys River, Sault Sainte Marie Locks and approaches thereto between latitude 45°57' N. at the southern approach and a line (at approximately 020° true) from Point Iroquois Light to the westward tangent of Jackson Island at the northern approach.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this twenty-second day of December in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-fifth.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
By the President:
CHRISTIAN A. HERTER,
Acting Secretary of State