By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 the Bandelier National Monument, New Mexico, was established for the preservation and protection of prehistoric aboriginal ruins by Proclamation No. 1322 of February 11, 1916 (39 Stat. 1764), and was enlarged by Proclamation No. 1991 of February 25, 1932 (47 Stat. 2503) ; and 
Whereas
 certain public lands of the United States comprising approximately 3,600 acres, contiguous to and north of lands set aside for the monument, formerly administered by the Atomic Energy Commission as a portion of a larger tract, were determined to be in excess of the needs of that agency; and 
Whereas
 such public lands were transferred to the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior on December 9, 1959, with the approval of the General Services Administration; and 
Whereas
 there are situated on such transferred lands pueblo-type archeological ruins germane to those in the monument area, and it appears that it would be in the public interest to add such lands to the monument: 
Now, Therefore, I, Dwight D. Eisenhower,
 President of the United States of America, under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 2 of the act of June 8, 1906, 34 Stat. 225 (16 U.S.C. 431), do proclaim that the following-described lands are hereby added to and reserved as a part of the Bandelier National Monument; and the boundaries of such monument are extended accordingly. 
A certain tract of land in the extreme south-central section of Los Alamos County, New Mexico, totaling approximately, 3,600 acres, which, described in general terms, is bounded on the west by a portion of the West Boundary of the Ramon Vigil Grant; on the south by the common boundary between the Ramon Vigil Grant and the Bandelier National Monument; on the east by an existing AEC barbed wire exclusion fence; and on the north by the south right-of-way line for New Mexico State Highway No. 4 between approximate stations 628+59.5 and 974+27.7, such tract being more particularly described as follows: 
Beginning at the intersection point of the west boundary line of the Ramon Vigil Grant between AP-4 and AP-5 and a line 66 feet south of and parallel to the center line of New Mexico State Highway No. 4 at approximate Station 974+27.7; thence, in a southerly direction along the West Boundary of the Ramon Vigil Grant to the southwest corner of the Grant, as described below and shown in detail on the Plat showing restorative survey of the Ramon Vigil Grant, 1912-1913 by U.S. Surveyor Wm. B. Douglas, approved by the U.S. Surveyor General's Office in Santa Fe on April 9, 1915. 
 
Thence along the South Boundary of the Ramon Vigil Grant (which is the existing North Boundary of the Bandelier National Monument) in accordance with the plat showing the resurvey of the South Boundary of the Ramon Vigil Grant, 1934, by U.S. Transitman Samuel L. Gray, and approved by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, March 2, 1934, as follows: 
 
Thence to and along an AEC barbed wire fence located as follows: 
 
Thence approximately 13.0' on the same bearing as (25) to (26) to a point 66 feet distant from the center line of State Highway No. 4 at approximately Highway Station 628+59.5. Thence along a line which is 66 feet distant, south of and parallel to the center line of New Mexico State Highway No. 4, to the point of beginning, a point located 66 feet 5 57°44' W of approximate highway station 874+27.7. Detailed location of the highway center line is shown on the As-Constructed Drawings of a U.S. Bureau of Public Roads project entitled: "AEC Access Road-Section B". Pertinent bearings and distances of the highway center line are as follows: 
 
The lands described above shall be subject to all laws and regulations applicable to the Bandelier National Monument and subject to the further restriction that the activities conducted thereon shall be confined to those which, in the opinion of the Atomic Energy Commission, will not interfere with the program or operations of the Commission in that area. 
Warning is hereby expressly given to all unauthorized persons not to appropriate, injure, destroy, deface, or remove any feature of the area herein added to the monument and not to locate or settle upon any of the lands reserved by this proclamation. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this ninth day of January in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-fifth. 
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER 
By the President: 
CHRISTIAN A. HERTER, 
Secretary of State.