By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States it is ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. There is hereby established the President's Commission on Campaign Costs, hereinafter referred to as the Commission. The Commission shall be composed of not more than twelve members, each of whom shall be appointed by the President from among persons outside the Government. One of the members of the Commission shall be designated by the President as Chairman thereof. 
SEC. 2. It shall be the function of the Commission to prepare and present to the President recommendations with respect to improved ways of financing expenditures required of nominees for the offices of President and Vice President. As may be appropriate, the Commission shall examine and inquire into, and assemble information with respect to, the costs of campaigning in Presidential elections and such other matters or considerations as may be relevant to the development of the Commission's recommendations to the President. 
SEC. 3. All who may be in a position to do so are requested to furnish the Commission information pertinent to its work and to otherwise facilitate the Commission's work. 
SEC. 4. Each member of the Commission shall receive compensation of $75 for each day such member is engaged upon the work of the Commission. The Commission is authorized to appoint such personnel as may be necessary to assist the Commission in connection with the performance of its functions without regard to the civil service and classification laws but no individual shall receive compensation at a rate in excess of $15,000 per annum. The Commission is authorized to obtain services in accordance with the provisions of section 15 of the Act of August 2, 1946 (5 U.S.C. 55a); the compensation for such services shall not exceed the rate of $75 per diem in the case of an individual. 
SEC. 5. The compensation of the members and employees of the Commission, lawful allowances therefor, and any other necessary expenses arising in connection with the work of the Commission shall be paid from the appropriation appearing under the heading "Special Projects" in title I of the General Government Matters, Department of Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriation Act, 1962, 75 Stat. 269. Such payments shall be made without regard to the provisions of section 3681 of the Revised Statutes and section 9 of the Act of March 4, 1909, 35 Stat. 1027 (31 U.S.C. 672 and 673). 
SEC. 6. The General Services Administration is hereby designated as the agency which shall provide administrative services for the Commission on a reimbursable basis. 
SEC. 7. The Commission in its discretion may transmit to the President such preliminary or interim report or reports as it may deem appropriate. It shall transmit its principal report to the President not later than April 30, 1962, and such additional supporting materials thereafter as it deems appropriate. The Commission shall terminate not later than 120 days after the date of its transmittal of its principal report to the President. 
JOHN F. KENNEDY
THE WHITE HOUSE,
November 8, 1961