By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Federal Register Act (49 Stat. 500, as amended; 44 U.S.C. 301 
et seq.),
 and as President of the United States, I hereby prescribe the following regulations governing the preparation, presentation, filing, and publication of Executive orders and proclamations: 
SECTION 1. 
Form.
 Proposed Executive orders and proclamations shall be prepared in accordance with the following requirements: 
(a) The order or proclamation shall be given a suitable title. 
(b) The order or proclamation shall contain a citation of the authority under which it is issued. 
(c) Punctuation, capitalization, spelling, and other matters of style shall, in general, conform to the most recent edition of the Style Manual of the United States Government Printing Office. 
(d) The spelling of geographic names shall conform to the decisions of the Board on Geographic Names, established by Section 2 of the Act of July 25, 1947, 61 Stat. 456 (43 U.S.C. 364a). 
(e) Descriptions of tracts of land shall conform, so far as practicable, to the most recent edition of the "Specifications for Descriptions of Tracts of Land for Use in Executive Orders and Proclamations," prepared by the Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior. 
(f) Proposed Executive orders and proclamations shall be typewritten on paper approximately 8 x 13 inches, shall have a left-hand margin of approximately 11/2 inches and a right-hand margin of approximately 1 inch, and shall be double-spaced, except that quotations, tabulations, and descriptions of land may be single-spaced. 
SEC. 2. 
Routing and approval of drafts.
 (a) A proposed Executive order or proclamation shall first be submitted, with seven copies thereof, to the Director of the Bureau of the Budget, together with a letter, signed by the head or other properly authorized officer of the originating Federal agency, explaining the nature, purpose, background, and effect of the proposed Executive order or proclamation and its relationship, if any, to pertinent laws and other Executive orders or proclamations. 
(b) If the Director of the Bureau of the Budget approves the proposed Executive order or proclamation, he shall transmit it to the Attorney General for his consideration as to both form and legality. 
(c) If the Attorney General approves the proposed Executive order or proclamation, he shall transmit it to the Director of the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Service, General Services Administration: 
Provided,
 that in cases involving sufficient urgency the Attorney General may transmit it directly to the President; and 
provided further,
 that the authority vested in the Attorney General by this section may be delegated by him, in whole or in part, to the Deputy Attorney General, Solicitor General, or to such Assistant Attorney General as he may designate. 
(d) After determining that the proposed Executive order or proclamation conforms to the requirements of Section 1 of this order and is free from typographical or clerical error, the Director of the Office of the Federal Register shall transmit it and three copies thereof to the President. 
(e) If the proposed Executive order or proclamation is disapproved by the Director of the Bureau of the Budget or by the Attorney General, it shall not thereafter be presented to the President unless it is accompanied by a statement of the reasons for such disapproval. 
SEC. 3. 
Routing and certification of originals and copies.
 (a) If the order or proclamation as signed by the President, the original and two copies thereof shall be forwarded to the Director of the Office of the Federal Register for publication in the FEDERAL REGISTER. 
Provided,
 that prior to such forwarding the Seal of the United States shall be affixed to the originals of proclamations to the extent required by statute or Executive order. 
(b) The Office of the Federal Register shall cause to be placed upon the copies of all Executive orders and proclamations forwarded as provided in subsection (a) of this section the following notation, to be signed by the Director or by some person authorized by him to sign such notation: "Certified to be a true copy of the original." 
SEC. 4. 
Proclamations calling for the observance of special days or events.
 Except as may be otherwise provided by law, responsibility for the preparation and presentation of proposed proclamations calling for the observance of special days, or other periods of time, or events shall be assigned by the Director of the Bureau of the Budget to such agencies as he may consider appropriate. Such proposed proclamations shall be submitted to the Director at least sixty days before the date of the specified observance. 
SEC. 5. 
Proclamations of treaties excluded.
 Consonant with the provisions of Section 12 of the Federal Register Act (49 Stat. 503; 44 U.S.C. 312), nothing in this order shall be construed to apply to treaties, conventions, protocols, or other international agreements, or proclamations thereof by the President. 
SEC. 6. 
Definition.
 The term "Presidential proclamations and Executive orders," as used in Section 5(a) of the Federal Register Act (44 U.S.C. 305 (a)), shall, except as the President or his representative may hereafter otherwise direct, be deemed to include such attachments thereto as are referred to in the respective proclamations or orders. 
SEC. 7. 
Prior order.
 Upon its publication in the FEDERAL REGISTER, this order shall supersede Executive Order No. 10006 of October 9, 1948. 
The regulations prescribed by this order shall be codified under Title 1 of the Code of Federal Regulations. 
JOHN F. KENNEDY
THE WHITE HOUSE,
June 19, 1962