WHEREAS it is necessary, through the conservation and wise use of resources, to preserve, develop, and make accessible to all our people outdoor recreation of such quantity and quality as will make possible the individual enjoyment of, and will assure the physical, cultural, and spiritual benefits of, such recreation; and 
WHEREAS the Federal Government has major nationwide responsibilities with respect, to outdoor recreation resources; and 
WHEREAS it is necessary to improve the effectiveness of Federal participation in the field of outdoor recreation; and 
WHEREAS a new Bureau of Outdoor Recreation has recently been established in the Department of the Interior; and 
WHEREAS improvements in the development of national outdoor recreation policies and the carrying out of national outdoor recreation programs will be facilitated by the provision of more adequate inter-agency consultation and advice: 
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is Ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. 
Recreation Advisory Council.
 (a) There is hereby established the Recreation Advisory Council (hereinafter referred to as the Council). The Council shall be composed of the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, and the Administrator of the Housing and Home Finance Agency. The chairmanship of the Council shall rotate among these officials in the order named and for terms of two years each. Each of the foregoing officers may appoint a delegate to represent him in Council activity. When matters affecting the interests of Federal agencies (including, as used in this order, executive departments and other executive agencies) the heads of which are not members of the Council are to be considered by the Council, the chairman of the Council shall invite such heads to participate in the deliberations of the Council. 
(b) The Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with the other members of the Council, shall be responsible for developing methods and procedures for improved interagency coordination in the development and carrying out of national outdoor recreation policies and programs. 
SEC. 2. 
Functions of the Council.
 (a) The Council shall provide broad policy advice to the heads of Federal agencies on all important matters affecting outdoor recreation resources and shall facilitate coordinated efforts among the various Federal agencies. 
(b) As far as may be practical, the Council, in carrying out the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, shall include advice to the Federal agencies concerned with respect to the following aspects of outdoor recreation resources: (1) the protection and appropriate management of scenic areas, natural wonders, primitive areas, historic sites, and recreation areas of national significance, (2) the management of Federal lands for the broadest possible recreation benefit consistent with other essential uses, (3) the management and improvement of fish and wildlife resources for recreational purposes, (4) cooperation with and assistance to the States and local governments, (5) interstate arrangements, including Federal participation where authorized and necessary, and (6) vigorous and cooperative leadership in a nationwide recreation effort. 
SEC. 3. 
Construction.
 Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal agency or head thereof to the authority of any other agency or officer or as abrogating or restricting any such function in any manner. 
SEC 4. 
Assistance and cooperation.
 (a) The Federal agencies headed by the officers composing the Council shall furnish necessary assistance to the Council in consonance with the provisions of Section 214 of the Act of May 3, 1945 (59 Star. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691). 
(b) In respect of duties of the Council and of the chairman of the Council, respectively, under this order, and insofar as practical, all Federal agencies shall upon request furnish information, data, and reports to, and shall otherwise cooperate with the said Council and chairman. 
JOHN F. KENNEDY
THE WHITE HOUSE,
April 27, 1962