WHEREAS various Federal programs and activities have a significant impact on the demand, supply, development, and utilization of manpower for the Nation; and
WHEREAS sound public policy requires an assessment of present and anticipated manpower resources and requirements of the Nation, including the direct and indirect impact of Federal policies, programs, and activities, and their interrelationship with other sectors of the economy; and
WHEREAS the Manpower Development and Training Act of 1962, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2571 et seq.), requires the Federal Government to appraise the manpower requirements and resources of the Nation, and directs the President to report to the Congress each year on manpower requirements, resources, use, and training; and
WHEREAS as provisions of Title I of that Act require the Secretary of Labor to report and make recommendations to the President on manpower requirements, resources, use, and training:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment of the Committee. (a) There is hereby established a President's Committee on Manpower (hereinafter referred to as the "Committee").
(b) The Committee shall be composed of the Secretary of Labor, who shall be the Chairman, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, the Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission, the Director of the National Science Foundation, the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Chairman of the Civil Service Commission, the Director of Selective Service, and such other heads of Federal agencies as the President may designate.
(c) The Chairman may invite the head of any other Federal agency to participate in meetings of the Committee when matters of substantial interest to such agency head are to be considered by the Committee.
(d) The Director of the Bureau of the Budget, the Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, the Director of the Office of Emergency Planning, and the Director of the Office of Science and Technology may each designate a member of his staff to attend meetings of the Committee as an observer.
Sec. 2. Functions of the Committee. (a) To assist in carrying out Federal functions under the Manpower Development and Training Act of 1962, as amended, the Committee (1) shall assist the Secretary of Labor, as requested by him, in assessing the Nation's current and prospective manpower requirements and supplies, including the direct and indirect effects of Federal programs, and in developing recommendations to deal with current and prospective manpower problems, and (2) shall advise the Secretary of Labor and other Federal officials, as appropriate, in developing improved methods and programs for appraising national manpower needs and resources.
(b) In carrying out these functions the Committee shall:
(1) Evaluate and, where appropriate, recommend improvements in methods and programs for assessing (i) present and anticipated manpower resources and requirements of the Nation, and (ii) in particular, the present and anticipated direct and indirect impact of Federal programs and activities on the Nation's manpower.
(2) Evaluate and make recommendations for the coordination within the Government of information, projections, research, and action programs concerned with measuring and projecting manpower needs and supplies.
(3) Make recommendations to appropriate Federal officials concerning procedures for obtaining consistency among projections of national manpower resources and requirements, and consult with the Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers with a view to obtaining consistency between the Government's manpower projections and estimates of current and foreseeable trends in the levels of employment, production, and purchasing power made pursuant to section 3(a) of the Employment Act of 1946 (15 U.S.C. 1022(a)).
(4) Make recommendations to appropriate officials concerning (i) information needed from Federal agencies in order to carry out the purposes of this order, (ii) the desirable form and manner of reporting such information, and (iii) the techniques and guidelines to be used in developing information and preparing such reports as may be prescribed by appropriate authority in order to obtain consistency among agency reports.
Sec. 3. Administrative arrangements. In consonance with the provisions of section 214 of the Act of May 3, 1945 (59 Stat. 134, 31 U.S.C. 691), and as may be necessary for effectuating the purposes of this order, (1) the Department of Labor shall provide administrative services and general staff support for the Committee, and (2) each Federal agency represented on the Committee (including the Department of Labor) shall furnish the Committee other necessary assistance in accordance with the said section 214.
Sec. 4. Construction. Nothing in this order shall be construed to abrogate, modify, or restrict any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal agency or any officer thereof.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
Approved:
The White House,
April 15, 1964.