By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
The United Service Organizations—the USO—was created nearly twenty-five years ago to fill a vital human need on the part of millions of young Americans serving in our Armed Forces. It was created in 1941 to provide a breath of home for American service men and women, wherever in the world they might find themselves. 
Today these initials are known to all Americans, for millions of us have either helped the USO or have been served by it. 
In unfamiliar cities, in countless foreign lands, the familiar USO sign has welcomed more than 20 million Americans in uniform. It is serving today no less than in the past. In a world where the burden of arms is part of the price of freedom, almost three million Americans are still in uniform. Almost one million of them are overseas. Almost two hundred thousand of them are in Vietnam. Wherever they go, the USO goes with them. 
The USO brings more than entertainment. No matter how difficult the conditions, the USO strives to create an environment where a service man or woman can relax, listen to a record, meet friends, watch a show, get help with personal problems, or write a letter home. 
The needs of the human heart do not change. Wherever young Americans are stationed, the soldier's age-old questions are still asked: "Does anybody know I'm here? Does anybody care?" The USO is the American public's way of answering, "Yes." 
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim February 4, 1966, as USO Day, and urge the people of the United States to give their enthusiastic support to the United Service Organizations. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this thirty-first day of December in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninetieth. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
By the President: 
DEAN RUSK 
Secretary of State