By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
"We hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness."
 
With these words our forefathers proclaimed a revolutionary concept of human rights--a concept that permeates our Constitution and our democratic form of government. Less than a century later President Lincoln spoke of the United States as "this government of the people, by the people, and for the people." 
Our Nation's rise to its unequaled position of prosperity and power was no accident of fate-nor was it achieved without costly struggle. Rather, the United States flourished because her people were so dedicated to free government that they were willing to sacrifice their lives and fortunes, at home or abroad, to preserve our democratic institutions. The roll of our honored dead attests to the courage of our people. 
This loyalty of our people-their unswerving devotion to our Nation and its Constitution has rewarded us with a heritage of freedom never before achieved by any civilization. We must cherish that heritage and fulfill our sacred trust to enrich and preserve it for our children, and our children's children. 
In these times when misguided forces throughout the world publicly declare their intent to destroy our democratic way of life, we affirm again our eternal hostility to tyranny and oppression wherever it exists. Once more we proclaim our loyalty to the United States, our determination to preserve freedom, justice, equality, and human dignity in this land, and our resolution to assure those blessings for all who yearn to be free. 
In recognition of this obligation, the Congress by a joint resolution of July 18, 1958 (72 Stat. 369), designated May 1 of each year as Loyalty Day and requested the President to issue a proclamation inviting the people of the United States to observe each such day with appropriate ceremonies. 
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America do call upon the people of the United States, and upon all patriotic, civic, and educational organizations to observe Saturday, May 1, 1965, as Loyalty Day, with appropriate ceremonies in which all of us may join in a reaffirmation of our loyalty to the United States of America. 
I also call upon appropriate officials of the Government to display the flag of the United States on all Government buildings on that day as a manifestation of our loyalty to the Nation which that flag symbolizes. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this eleventh day of March in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-ninth. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON 
By the President: 
DEAN RUSK, 
Secretary of State.