By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 1753 of the Revised Statutes and the Civil Service Act (22 Stat. 403), and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Under regulations and conditions prescribed by the Civil Service Commission, a present or former officer or employee of the Foreign Service may be appointed in the competitive service if he:
(a) Is qualified for the position in the competitive service;
(b) Was appointed in the Foreign Service under authority of the Foreign Service Act of 1946, as amended, or legislation that supplements or replaces that Act;
(c) Served in the Foreign Service under an unlimited, career-type appointment and, immediately before his separation from that appointment, he completed at least one year of continuous service under one or more nontemporary appointments in the Foreign Service which may include the service that made him eligible for his career-type appointment; and
(d) Is appointed within 3 years after his separation from the Foreign Service, or he completed at least 3 years, of substantially continuous service under one or more nontemporary appointments in the Foreign Service immediately before his separation from the unlimited, career-type appointment in that Service which may include the service that made him eligible for such appointment, or he is entitled to preference under section 2 of the Veterans' Preference Act of 1944, as amended.
Sec. 2. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a person appointed under Section 1 of this Order becomes a career conditional employee.
(b) A person appointed under Section 1 of this Order becomes a career employee when he:
(1) Has completed at least 3 years of substantially continuous service under one or more nontemporary appointments in the Foreign Service immediately before his separation from the unlimited, career type appointment in that Service which may include the service that made him eligible for such appointment;
(2) Is appointed to a position in the competitive service required by law or Executive order to be filled on a permanent or career basis; or
(3) Has completed the service requirement for career tenure in the competitive service.
For the purpose of subparagraph (3) of this paragraph, service in the Foreign Service is creditable in meeting the service requirement only if the person concerned is appointed to a nontemporary position in the competitive service under Section 1 of this Order within 30 days after his separation from the Foreign Service.
Sec. 3. A person appointed to a nontemporary position in the competitive service under Section 1 of this Order acquires a competitive status automatically on appointment.
Sec. 4. Any law, Executive order, or regulation that would disqualify an applicant for appointment in the competitive service shall also disqualify a person for appointment under Section 1 of this Order.
Sec. 5. For the purpose of this Order, a person is deemed to be an officer or employee in the "Foreign Service" if he was appointed in any agency under authority of the Foreign Service Act of 1946, as amended, or legislation that supplements or replaces that Act.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House,
May 6, 1965.