By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
1966 marks the twenty-first anniversary of the signing of the United Nations Charter. 
Since 1945 successive administrations have re-affirmed this nation's commitment to the purposes of the United Nations. 
For more than two decades the United States has worked to help the UN improve its peacekeeping capacity, expand its programs of economic development, and promote social justice and human rights. 
The UN has been effective in containing local disputes which, if unchecked, could have led to general war. It has assisted scores of nations in meeting the challenges of the technological revolution. Above all, the UN has proved to be a place where constructive dialogues between rich and poor nations can lead to better understanding in today's world, and the promise of a fuller life for future generations. 
Because we know that institutions, like men, must remain ever ready to cope with recurring crises, we will continue to do our share in keeping the UN's operations relevant to its problems, realistic in approach, and responsible in action. 
Effective public support for the United Nations depends upon a sober appraisal of its accomplishments, and upon a sympathetic understanding of the problems, as well as the potential, of the world organization. 
The General Assembly of the United Nations has resolved that October twenty-fourth, the date of the coming into force of the United Nations Charter in 1945, should be dedicated each year to making known the purposes, principles, and accomplishments of the United Nations: 
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Monday, October 24, 1966, as United Nations Day, and urge the citizens of this Nation to observe that day by means of community programs which will contribute to a realistic understanding of the aims, problems, and achievements of the United Nations and its associated organizations. 
I also call upon officials of the Federal and State Governments and upon local officials to encourage citizen groups and agencies of communication—press, radio, television, and motion pictures—to engage in special and appropriate observance of United Nations Day this year in cooperation with the United Nations Association of the United States of America and other interested organizations. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this 11th day of May in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninetieth. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
By the President: 
DEAN RUSK 
Secretary of State