By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Harry S Truman, the thirty-third President of the United States, was born eightytwo years ago on the 8th day of May, 1884. 
Throughout his life, Harry S Truman has devoted himself unceasingly to the cause of freedom, peace, and the betterment of his fellow man. His historic decisions during his service as President of the United States, from 1945 through 1952, have made the world a better and safer place not only for his fellow citizens but for the entire human race. 
Harry S Truman's deep concern for the well-being of each individual American will never be surpassed by any President. His wise and passionate pursuit of justice, opportunity, and security for every citizen set an example which every President of the United States will strive to emulate so long as the Nation and the Presidency shall endure. And it has won him a permanent place in the hearts of his countrymen. 
Among the legacy Harry S Truman gave to history are included the United Nations Charter which, under his guidance, the United States became the first major power to ratify; the formulation and successful operation of the Truman Doctrine, which played a major role in preserving free institutions in Greece and Turkey; the Marshall Plan, which played a major role in rebuilding the war-depleted economies of Western Europe; and such outstanding legislative accomplishments for the welfare of the American people, as the National School Lunch Act, the National Mental Health Act, the Atomic Energy Act of 1946, the National Heart Act, the Minimum Wage and Hour Act amendments of October 26, 1949, the Act of September 23, 1950, providing Federal assistance for school construction in federally impacted areas, and the Federal Coal Mine Safety Act amendments of July 16, 1952. 
His accomplishments have been recognized by friendly nations throughout the world. His contributions to peace have been especially honored by the creation of the Harry S Truman Center for the Advancement of Peace, to be located at the Holy City of Jerusalem. 
The Senate of the United States, in which he served faithfully and well before ascending to the Presidency, has further recognized this Nation's indebtedness to Harry S Truman by calling upon the President of the United States to extend upon the occasion of his eighty-second birthday, May 8, 1966, the admiration and gratitude of all our people. 
I am proud to honor this request and do hereby extend to the Honorable Harry S Truman this expression of our profound and lasting gratitude and appreciation for his long years of devoted service to his country. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this ninth day of May in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninetieth. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
By the President:
DEAN RUSK
Secretary of State