By virtue of the authority vested in me by Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1965 (30 F.R. 9353), and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows: 
SECTION I. 
Establishment of Council.
 (a) There is hereby established the National Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial Policies, hereinafter referred to as the Council. 
(b) The Council shall be composed of the following members: the Secretary of the Treasury, who shall be the chairman of the Council, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Commerce, the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the President of the Export-Import Bank of Washington. 
(c) Whenever matters within the jurisdiction of the Council may be of interest to Federal agencies not represented on the Council under Section 1 (b) of this order, the Chairman of the Council may consult with such agencies and may invite them to designate representatives to participate in meetings and deliberations of the Council. 
SEC. 2. 
Functions of the Council.
 (a) Exclusive of the functions delegated by the provisions of Section 3, below, and subject to the limitations contained in subsection (b) of this Section, all of the functions which are now vested in the President in consequence of their transfer to him effected by the provisions of Section 1 (b) of Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1965 are hereby delegated to the Council. 
(b) The functions under Sections 4(a) and 4(b) (3) of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act, including those made applicable to the International Finance Corporation, the Inter-American Development Bank, and the International Development Association (22 U.S.C. 286b (a) and (b) (3); 282b; 283b; 284b), to the extent that such functions consist of coordination of policies, are hereby delegated to the Council. The functions so dele gated shall be deemed to include the authority to review proposed individual loan, financial, exchange, or monetary transactions to the extent necessary or desirable to effectuate the coordination of policies. 
SEC. 3. 
Functions of the Secretary of the Treasury.
 (a) Functions which' are now vested in the President in consequence of their transfer to him effected by the provisions of Section 1 (b) of Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1965 are hereby delegated to the Secretary of the Treasury to the extent of the following: 
(1) Authority to instruct representatives of the United States to international financial organizations. 
(2) Authority provided for in Section 4 (b) (4) of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286b (b) (4)). 
(b) In carrying out the functions delegated to him by subsection (a) of this Section the Secretary shall consult with the Council. 
(c) Nothing in this order shall be deemed to derogate from the responsibilities of the Secretary of State with respect to the foreign policy of the United States. 
SEC. 4. 
Information.
 (a) All agencies and officers of the Government, including representatives of the United States to international financial organizations, (1) shall keep the Council or the Secretary of the Treasury, as the case may be, fully informed concerning the foreign loan, financial, exchange, and monetary transactions in which they engage or may engage or with respect to which they have other responsibility, and (2) shall provide the Council and the Secretary with such further information or data in their possession as the Council or the Secretary, as the case may be, may deem necessary to the appropriate discharge of the responsibilities of the Council and Secretary under Sections 2 and 3 of this order, respectively. 
(b) The Council shall from time to time transmit to all appropriate agencies and officers of the Government statements of the policies of the Council under this order and such other information relating to the above- mentioned transactions or to the functions of the Council hereunder as the Council shall deem desirable. 
SEC. 5. 
Executive Order No. 10033.
 Section 2 (a) of Executive Order No. 10033 of February 8, 1949, is hereby amended by substituting for the name "National Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial Problems" the following: "National Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial Policies." 
SEC. 6. 
Effective date.
 The provisions of this order shall be effective as of January 1, 1966. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON 
The White House
February 14, 1966