The promise and the future strength of the United States is in our youth.
We must meet the needs of youth so that the formative years will equip them for a productive role in society and prepare them for the responsibilities of citizenship.
Many youths, particularly those who live in impoverished areas, need special help in improving their lives and finding a place in the mainstream of our society.
Existing public services for youth need to be strengthened and improved and joined with private resources.
Programs and resources of Federal departments and agencies require coordination in order to provide continuity in planning and carrying out services to meet the needs of youth.
The summer months provide an exceptional opportunity to enhance the sound growth and guidance of youth through education, employment, recreation, and health services.
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
PART I. PRESIDENT'S COUNCIL ON YOUTH OPPORTUNITY
SECTION 101. Membership and chairmanship. (a) There is hereby established the President's Council on Youth Opportunity (hereinafter referred to as the "Council"). The Council shall be composed of the Vice President, who shall serve as Chairman, the Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity, the Chairman of the Civil Service Commission, and such other Federal officials as the President may designate. Each of the foregoing may appoint a delegate to represent him in Council affairs.
(b) When matters which affect the interests of Federal agencies not represented on the Council are to be considered by the Council the Chairman shall invite the heads of such agencies to participate in the business of the Council.
SEC. 102. Functions of the Council. (a) The Council shall be responsible for (1) assuring effective program planning for summer and other youth programs of the Federal Government, (2) strengthening the coordination of youth programs and activities of Federal departments and agencies, (3) evaluating the over-all effectiveness of Federal youth opportunity programs, (4) encouraging State, local, nonprofit and other private organizations to participate fully in efforts to enhance opportunities for youth, and (5) reporting progress to the President.
(b) The scope of subsection (a) of this section extends to, but is not limited to, (1) programs to maximize meaningful employment for youth in cooperation with employers and agencies of Federal, State, and local governments, and with emphasis on types of employment leading to the acquisition of skills which will increase the employability of participants as members of the labor force; (2) programs to strengthen the educational achievements of youth through such means as preparatory courses conducted through school systems which will encourage youth to continue or resume their education, remedial and tutorial programs conducted in the communities by schools and colleges, and the use of summer and part-time employment as incentives; (3) programs to encourage and stimulate youth to become involved in improving their home neighborhoods; (4) programs designed to identify, diagnose, and treat the illnesses and handicapping conditions of youth who participate in these summer programs; (5) programs arranged through communities and private organizations to stimulate opportunities for youth to participate in cultural, recreational, and athletic activities or competitions; (6) programs utilizing the existing camping and recreational resources in Federal, State, and local parks, forests, and recreation areas, with a view to securing the support and participation of public authorities and private organizations concerned with youth in developing constructive outdoor or work-related opportunities which will benefit disadvantaged urban and rural youth by utilizing such facilities during the summer months; and (7) programs designed to increase opportunities for children of urban slums to spend part of their summers in the wholesome environment of families in other areas through the hospitality of such families and with the support and cooperation of private, nonprofit organizations.
SEC. 103. Assistance and cooperation. (a) Upon request of the Chairman, each Federal agency shall, to the extent permitted by law and within available funds, furnish information, data, and reports needed by the Council to accomplish the purposes of this order.
(b) All Federal officials, in carrying out their statutory responsibilities and programs, shall be mindful of the objectives of this order, and shall take into account any advice given by the Council pursuant to this order, and shall take such measures, consistent with their authorities and available funds, as will assist in accomplishing the purposes of this order.
(c) The staff of the Council shall include an Executive Director, who shall be appointed by the Chairman of the Council, and such other employees as may be necessary, who shall be assigned by the various members of the Council.
PART IL CITIZENS ADVISORY BOARD ON YOUTH OPPORTUNITY
SEC. 201. Establishment of Board. (a) There is hereby established the Citizens Advisory Board on Youth Opportunity (hereinafter referred to as the "Board").
(b) The Board shall be composed of a Chairman and not more than fourteen other members, all of whom shall be appointed by the President. The Chairman shall serve as such until his successor is appointed by the President. Appointments of the other members of the Board shall be governed by the following: (1) The terms of those first appointed hereunder shall expire on July 1, 1969. (2) The immediate successors of the members so appointed shall be appointed, in as nearly equal numbers as may be, for terms of one year, two years, and three years. (3) Thereafter appointments shall be made for terms of three years.
SEC. 202. Duties and responsibilities. (a) The Board shall advise both the President and the Council on matters relating to (1) ways and means of enhancing the opportunities of disadvantaged youth to achieve preparation for adult responsibility, (2) the coordination of programs and activities of Federal agencies which pertain to the needs of youth, and (3) local, State, and private action to extend and improve youth opportunity.
(b) The Board shall advise and assist the Council in the evaluation of the progress made in carrying cut the functions of the Council and recommend to the Council, as necessary, action to accelerate progress.
PART III. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 301. Financing. The Federal agencies headed by the officers composing the Council shall, as may be necessary, furnish assistance to the Council or the Board in accordance with the provisions of section 214 of the Act of May 3, 1945 (59 Stat. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691).
SEC. 302. Expenses of Board members. Members of the Board shall receive no compensation from the United States by reason of their service under this order but they may be allowed transportation expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence or reimbursement for actual and necessary expenses (5 U.S.C. 5703(c) (d)).
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House
March 5, 1967