By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. 
Establishment of the Commission.
 (a) There is hereby established the President's Commission on Postal Organization (hereafter referred to as the "Commission").
(b) The Commission shall be composed of not more than ten members appointed by the President from among persons who are not full-time officers or employees of the Federal Government. The members, one of whom shall be designated by the President as Chairman, shall serve at the pleasure of the President.
SEC. 2. 
Functions of the Commission.
 (a) The Commission shall study the organization and structure of the postal service of the United States, and shall determine and report upon the feasibility and desirability of a transfer of the postal service from the Post Office Department to a Government corporation, or such other form of organization as the Commission may consider desirable. In carrying out this responsibility, the Commission shall consider, among such other factors as it deems relevant, the need for:
(1) improving the organization, management and efficiency of the postal service to meet the growing burdens placed on the service and to be fully responsive to the public interest;
(2) maintaining fair and reasonable postal rates, and a proper balance among the interests Of different classes of users;
(3) maintaining a fair and reasonable structure of compensation for postal officers and employees, together with other personnel policies and practices designed to increase their productivity;
(4) providing adequate, timely and economical financing for the costs of operations, plant and equipment and research and development;
(5) modernizing the facilities, equipment and mail handling technique of the postal service;
(6) attaining such other characteristics and capabilities as the Commission may determine to be necessary for a superior postal service.
(b) If the Commission concludes that the transfer of the postal service to a Government corporation or other form of organization would not be feasible or desirable, it shall so report, stating its reasons and making recommendations for the improvement of the organization, methods and operations of the Post Office Department. If it concludes that such a transfer would be both feasible and desirable, it shall so report, stating its reasons, and shall make specific recommendations with respect to:
(1) the nature, powers and functions of the corporation or other form of organization and its relationship to the President, the Congress and the public;
(2) the composition and method of appointment of its top management;
(3) the policies to be followed in the employment and retention of personnel;
(4) methods of setting postal rates;
(5) methods of determining the compensation and other benefits of officers and employees;
(6) policies to be followed in dealing with representatives of employees;
(7) procurement of transportation for the mails;
(8) financing; and
(9) such other matters as are, in the judgment of the Commission, pertinent to the efficient functioning of the postal service.
SEC. 3. 
Cooperation by Executive Departments and Agencies.
 The Commission is authorized to request and accept from any executive department or agency any information and assistance deemed necessary to carry out its functions under this order. Each department or agency is authorized, to the extent permitted by law and within the limits of available funds, to furnish information and assistance to the Commission.
SEC. 4. 
Compensation and Personnel.
 (a) Members of the Commission shall receive such compensation as may hereafter be specified when engaged in the performance of duties pursuant to this order, and shall be allowed travel expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5703) for persons intermittently employed.
(b) The Commission shall have an Executive Director who shall be designated by the President and shall receive such compensation as may hereafter be specified. The functions and duties of the Executive Director shall be prescribed by the Commission. The Commission is authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of such other personnel as may be necessary to enable it to carry out its functions and is authorized to obtain services in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 3109.
SEC. 5. 
Reports to the President and Termination.
 The Commission shall present its final report and recommendations not later than one year from the date of this order. The Commission shall terminate upon presentation of such report and recommendations, or upon such other date as the President may determine.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House
April 8, 1967