By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, Executive Order No. 11136 of January 3,1964, is hereby amended to read as follows:
"The consumer's interest is the American interest, for we are all consumers. In filling the needs of our daily lives, we are direct purchasers of two thirds of our total national production.
"The success of our competitive economic system depends on the furtherance of the consumer interest. And it is our free marketplace, working for the benefit of the individual, that has given to the American consumer the highest standard of living the world has ever known.
"The consumer has four very basic rights in that marketplace—the right to be informed about the products he buys; the right to choose between several varieties of those products; the right to be protected from unsafe products; and the right to be heard in the highest councils of government.
"It is our job to assure the preservation of those rights. To do so, we must have the cooperation of business and industry, as well as of the consumer. They are all integral, interacting, indispensable elements of our economic system. They must have mutual trust, mutual respect, and a mutual dedication to a sound and healthy America.
"Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
"PART I. PRESIDENT'S COMMITTEE ON CONSUMER INTERESTS
"SECTION 101. Establishment of the Committee. (a) There is hereby established the President's Committee on Consumer Interests (hereinafter referred to as the 'Committee').
"(b) The Committee shall be composed of the Special Assistant to the President for Consumer Affairs; the Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers; the Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity; the Attorney General; the Postmaster General; the Secretary of the Interior; the Secretary of Agriculture; the Secretary of Commerce; the Secretary of Labor; the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare; the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development; the Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission; the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs; and such other Government officials as the President may designate.
"(c) The Chairman of the Committee shall be the Special Assistant to the President for Consumer Affairs. The Chairman shall direct and supervise any staff employed by or detailed to the Committee.
"(d) When matters are to be considered by the Committee which affect the interests of Federal agencies the heads of which are not members of the Committee, the Chairman of the Committee shall invite such agency heads to participate in the deliberations of the Committee.
"SEC. 102. Functions of the Committee. (a) The Committee shall study the plans and programs of Federal agencies affecting consumer interests. The Committee shall make recommendations to the President on questions of policy relating to consumer affairs; may conduct studies of matters related to consumer interests; and shall encourage and assist Federal agencies to accomplish effective coordination of plans and programs affecting consumers.
"(b) In carrying out the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, the Committee shall, as far as may be practicable, advise Federal agencies with respect to the effect of their respective plans and programs on consumer matters, and may suggest to such agencies procedures which the Committee believes will better protect consumer interests. Such plans and programs may include, but shall not be limited to, those relating to (1) the scope of Federal action in consumer matters, and (2) cooperation with the States and their local subdivisions and With private organizations and individuals in areas of consumer interest.
"SEC. 103. Assistance and cooperation. (a) The Federal agencies headed by the officers composing the Committee shall, as may be necessary for effectuating the purposes of this order, furnish assistance to the Committee in accordance with Section 214 of the Act of May 3, 1945 (59 Stat. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691).
"(b) Upon request of the Chairman of the Committee, each Federal agency shall, to the extent consistent with law, furnish information, data, and reports needed by the Committee to accomplish the purposes of this order.
"(c) All Federal officials, in carrying out their statutory responsibilities and programs, shall be mindful of the objectives of this order, and shall take such measures, consistent with their authorities and available funds, as will assist in effectuating the consumer programs with which they are concerned.
"(d) The Department of Labor shall provide administrative services for the Committee on a reimbursable basis.
"SEC. 101. Construction. Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal agency or the head thereof to the authority of any other agency or officer or as abrogating or restricting any such function in any manner.
PART II. CONSUMER ADVISORY COUNCIL
"Sec. 201. Establishment of Council. There is hereby established the Consumer Advisory Council (hereinafter referred to as the 'Council') which shall be composed of not more than 12 members appointed by the President. The President shall designate the Chairman of the Council from among its members. Initial appointments to membership on the Council shall be for two-year terms. Successors shall be appointed for terms of one or two years, as specified by the President, and all appointments thereafter shall be for two-year terms. Any person chosen to fill a vacancy shall be appointed for the unexpired term of the member whom he succeeds.
"SEC. 202. Duties and responsibilities. (a) The Council shall advise the President and the Committee on matters relating to the consumer interest.
"(b) The Council shall advise and assist the Committee in evaluating the progress made in carrying out the functions of the Committee and recommend to the Committee, as necessary, action to accelerate such progress.
"(c) The Chairman of the Council, through the Chairman of the Committee, may request information relating to the functions of the Committee as set forth in Section 102(a) above, and the Council, on its own motion, may initiate consideration of items which relate to carrying out those functions.
"(d) The Chairman of the Committee shall be responsible for assuring that the meetings and other activities of the Council are carried out in accordance with the relevant provisions of Executive Order No. 11007 of February 26, 1962.
"SEC. 203. Expenses. Expenses of the Council shall be met from funds available to the Committee. Members of the Council shall, for each day a member is engaged in meetings or is, with the approval of the Chairman of the Committee, engaged in other work in pursuance of this order, receive compensation at a rate determined by the Chairman of the Committee, and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 3109; 5 U.S.C. 5703)."
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House
May 1, 1967