By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Abraham Lincoln, leaving his beloved Illinois to assume the office of President, told his friends in farewell:
"I now leave, not knowing when or whether ever I may return, with a task before me greater than that which rested upon Washington. Without the assistance of the Divine Being who ever attended him, I cannot succeed. With that assistance, I cannot fail. Trusting in Him who can go with me, and remain with you, and be everywhere for good, let us confidently hope that all will yet be well. To His care commending you, as I hope in your prayers you will commend me, I bid you an affectionate farewell."
At every moment of crisis, in every hour of trial, our people have prayed for guidance and strength from their Creator. On that day when Americans first declared themselves to be free, they appealed to "the Supreme Judge of the world for the rectitude of our intentions."
Today, favored as we have been as a land and people, we have not forgotten the ultimate source of every power for good. In churches, in homes, or, as St. Paul said, "In sighs too deep for words," we pray that "in the time of prosperity, fill our hearts with thankfulness. And in the day of trouble, suffer not our trust in Thee to fail."
Sensible of our people's faith, the Congress, by a joint resolution of April 17, 1952, provided that the President "shall set aside and proclaim a suitable day each year, other than a Sunday, as a National Day of Prayer, on which the people of the United States may turn to God in prayer and meditation at churches, in groups, and as individuals."
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby set aside Wednesday, October 18, 1967, as National Day of Prayer, 1967.
Let each of us pray that God will endow us with the constancy to prevail in defense of freedom, and with the courage and resolution to preserve and extend His blessings of liberty.
Let us ask God to enlighten the minds of all our people so that we may work together to remove the inequalities that are among us. Let us pray that the Supreme Lawgiver will inspire all Americans to take the law into our hearts, not into our hands, and teach us all a respect for the rights of our fellowmen.
Let us all thank God for His bounty, praying as we do that He will make America worthy of its continuance.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this sixth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-second.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON