WHEREAS the United States has initiated a number of programs in various Departments that should be made available for the development and benefit of the Indian population; and
WHEREAS these programs should be adapted and coordinated in such manner that Indians will participate in and be benefited by them:
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. 
Establishment of Council.
 There is hereby established The National Council on Indian Opportunity (hereinafter referred to as the "Council"). The Council shall have membership as follows: The Vice President of the United States who shall be the chairman of the Council, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity, and six Indian leaders appointed by the President of the United States for terms of two years.
SEC. 2. 
Functions of the Council.
 The Council shall: (a) Encourage full use of Federal programs to benefit the Indian population, adapting them where necessary to be available to Indians on reservations in a meaningful way.
(b)Encourage interagency coordination and cooperation in carrying out Federal programs as they relate to Indians.
(c) Appraise the impact and progress of Federal programs for Indians.
(d) Suggest ways to improve such programs.
SEC. 3. 
Compensation and per diem.
 Members of the Council who are officers of the Federal government shall receive no additional compensation by reason of this order. Other members of the Council shall be entitled to receive compensation and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons in the government service employed intermittently (5 U.S.C., §§ 3109, 5703).
SEC. 4. 
Assistance to the Council.
 (a) Each Federal department and agency represented on the Council shall furnish such necessary assistance to the Council as may be authorized by section 214 of the Act of May 3, 1945, 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691), or other law. The Department of the Interior shall furnish necessary administrative services for the Council.
(b) The staff of the Council shall include an Executive Director, who shall be appointed by the chairman of the Council, and such other employees as may be necessary, who shall be assigned by the departments and agencies represented on the Council.
SEC. 5. 
Meetings.
 The Council shall meet on call of the chairman.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House
March 6, 1968