By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
On October 24, 1968, the world will mark the twenty-third birthday of the United Nations.
Our commitment to that organization has been a continuing element of our foreign policy since the U.N. was founded, in 1945. Distinguished Americans of both parties represented our country in the framing of its Charter. Democrats and Republicans alike continued to represent our country in the councils of the United Nations. Together they have contributed to its objectives—the peaceful settlement of disputes, economic and social progress, the control of nuclear armaments, the growth of international law, and the protection of human rights.
The cause of human rights is receiving special notice in the United Nations this year, for it was 20 years ago that the General Assembly adopted a landmark document, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. To mark that anniversary, 1968 has been designated as International Human Rights Year.
As we take stock of the work of the United Nations, let us not be beguiled either by easy optimism or by blind pessimism. Let us look squarely at both its successes and its disappointments. Above all, we must not forget that the cause of peace and progress, in this age. of mingled hope and danger, requires nations to reject aggression in favor of conciliation and cooperation—of which the United Nations offers the greatest common instrument. Not by arms, but by giving life and practice to the principles of peace, will men find the peace and security in which freedom can flourish.
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Thursday, October 24, 1968, as United Nations Day, and I urge the citizens of this Nation to observe that day by means of such community programs as will contribute to a realistic understanding of the aims, problems, and achievements of the United Nations and its associated organizations.
I also call upon officials of the Federal and State Governments and upon local officials to encourage citizen groups and agencies of communication—press, radio, television, and motion pictures—to engage in special and appropriate observance of United Nations Day this year in cooperation with the United Nations Association of the United States of America and other interested organizations.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eleventh day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-third.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON