WHEREAS studies, both private and public, have revealed that, despite progress, there are disturbing deficiencies in the physical fitness of American citizens, particularly the disadvantaged; and
WHEREAS physical fitness and sports participation can significantly enhance an individual's sense of well-being, health status and performance as a responsible member of his community; and
WHEREAS urbanization of this Nation's population and changes in our rural areas have not been accompanied by a commensurate growth in the opportunities available for participation in sports and other physical fitness activities; and
WHEREAS, to keep our Nation moving forward as a vigorous, dynamic people, it is necessary to expand our efforts—both public and private—to foster and encourage participation by youth and adults in physical fitness and sports activities:
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports. There is hereby established the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports (hereinafter referred to as the Council), which shall be composed of the Vice President, who shall be the Chairman, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, the Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity, and the Consultant to the President for Physical Fitness. When matters which affect the interests of Federal agencies not represented on the Council are to be considered by the Council, the Chairman shall invite the heads of such agencies to participate in the business of the Council.
SEC. 2. Functions of the Council. The Council shall develop policies designed to:
(1) Enlist the active support and assistance of individual citizens, civic groups, professional associations, amateur and professional sport groups, private enterprise, voluntary organizations, and others in efforts to promote and improve physical fitness and sports participation programs for all Americans;
(2) Stimulate, improve, and strengthen coordination of Federal services and programs relating to physical fitness and sports participation;
(3) Encourage State and local governments in efforts to enhance physical fitness and sports participation;
(4) Strengthen the physical fitness of American children, youth, and adults by systematically encouraging the development of community-centered and other physical fitness and sports participation programs;
(5) Improve school health and physical education programs for all pupils, including the handicapped and the physically underdeveloped, by assisting educational agencies in developing quality programs, encouraging innovation, improving teacher preparation, and strengthening State and local leadership;
(6) Develop cooperative programs with medical, dental, and other similar professional societies to encourage and implement sound physical fitness practices; and
(7) Stimulate and encourage research in the areas of physical fitness and sports performance.
SEC. 3. Citizens Advisory Committee on Physical Fitness and Sports. (a) There is hereby established the Citizens Advisory Committee on Physical Fitness and Sports (hereinafter referred to as the Committee), which shall be composed of not more than fifteen members appointed by the President. The President shall designate the Chairman of the Committee from among its members, and the Committee shall meet on the call of the Chairman.
(b) The members of the Committee shall receive no compensation from the United States by reason of their service on the Committee, but they shall be reimbursed for travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5703) for persons in the Government service employed intermittently.
SEC. 4. Functions of the Committee. (a) The Committee shall advise and assist the Council in evaluating progress made in carrying out the provisions of this order and shall recommend to the Council, as necessary, steps to accelerate progress.
(b) The Committee shall further advise the Council on matters pertaining to ways and means of enhancing opportunities for participation in physical fitness and sports activities and on State, local, and private action to extend and improve physical activity programs and services.
SEC. 5. Federal agencies. (a) The Council and the Committee are authorized to request from any Federal department or agency any information deemed necessary to carry out their functions under this order and to utilize the services and facilities of such departments and agencies to the maximum extent possible; and each department and agency is authorized, to the extent permitted by law and within the limits of available funds, to furnish such information, services, and facilities to the Council and the Committee.
(b) Each department or agency the head of which is referred to in section 1 of this order shall, as may be necessary for the purpose of effectuating the provisions of this order, furnish assistance to the Council in accordance with the provisions of section 214 of the Act of May 3, 1945 (59 Stat. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691), or as otherwise permitted by law. Expenses of the Committee shall be met from funds available to the Council.
(c) The Department of Health, Education, and Welfare shall furnish necessary administrative services for the Council.
SEC. 6. Construction. Nothing in this order shall be construed to abrogate, modify, or restrict any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal department or agency or any officer thereof.
SEC. 7. Continuity. The Council established by this order shall be deemed to be a continuation of the President's Council on Physical Fitness.
SEC. 8. Seal. Executive Order 10830 of July 24, 1959, prescribing a seal for the President's Council on Youth Fitness, as amended by Executive Order 11074 of January 8, 1963, is further amended by adding the words "and Sports" after the word "Fitness" wherever it appears in said order.
SEC. 9. Revocation. Executive Order 11074 of January 8, 1963, is hereby revoked.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House
March 4, 1968