By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
PART I. ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY COUNCIL
SECTION 101. 
Establishment of the Council.
 (a) There is hereby established the Environmental Quality Council (hereinafter referred to as "the Council.").
(b) The President of the United States shall preside over meetings of the Council. The Vice President shall preside in the absence of the President.
(c) The Council shall be composed of the following members:
The Vice President of the United States
Secretary of Agriculture
Secretary of Commerce
Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
Secretary of the Interior
Secretary of Transportation
and such other heads of departments and agencies and others as the President may from time to time direct.
(d) Each member of the Council may designate an alternate, who shall serve as a member of the Council whenever the regular member is unable to attend any meeting of the Council.
(e) When matters which affect the interests of Federal agencies the heads of which are not members of the Council are to be considered by the Council, the President or his representative may invite such agency heads or their alternates to participate in the deliberations of the Council.
(f) The Director of the Bureau of the Budget, the Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, and the Executive Secretary of the Council for Urban Affairs or their representatives may participate in the deliberations of the Environmental Quality Council as observers.
(g) The Science Adviser to the President shall be the Executive Secretary of the Council and shall assist the President in directing the affairs of the Council.
SEC. 102. 
Functions of the Council.
 (a) The Council shall advise and assist the President with respect to environmental quality matters and shall perform such other related duties as the President may from time to time prescribe. In addition thereto, the Council is directed to:
(1) Recommend measures to ensure that Federal policies and programs, including those for development and conservation of natural resources, take adequate account of environmental effects.
(2) Review the adequacy of existing systems for monitoring and predicting environmental changes so as to achieve effective coverage and efficient use of facilities and other resources.
(3) Foster cooperation between the Federal Government, State and local governments, and private organizations in environmental programs.
(4) Seek advancement of scientific knowledge of changes in the environment and encourage the development of technology to prevent or minimize adverse effects that endanger man's health and well-being.
(5) Stimulate public and private participation in programs and activities to protect against pollution of the Nation's air, water, and land and its living resources.
(6) Encourage timely public disclosure by all levels of government and by private parties of plans that would affect the quality of environment.
(7) Assure assessment of new and changing technologies for their potential effects on the environment.
(8) Facilitate coordination among departments and agencies of the Federal Government in protecting and improving the environment.
(b) The Council shall review plans and actions of Federal agencies affecting outdoor recreation and natural beauty. The Council may conduct studies and make recommendations to the President on matters of policy in the fields of outdoor recreation and natural beauty. In carrying out the foregoing provisions of this subsection, the Council shall, as far as may be practical, advise Federal agencies with respect to the effect of their respective plans and programs on recreation and natural beauty, and may suggest to such agencies ways to accomplish the purposes of this order. For the purposes of this order, plans and programs may include, but are not limited to, those for or affecting: (1) development, restoration, and preservation of the beauty of the countryside, urban and suburban areas, water resources, wild rivers, scenic roads, parkways and highways, (2) the protection and appropriate management of scenic or primitive areas, natural wonders, historic sites, and recreation areas, (3) the management of Federal land and water resources, including fish and wildlife, to enhance natural beauty and recreational opportunities consistent with other essential uses, (4) cooperation with the States and their local subdivisions and private organizations and individuals in areas of mutual interest, (5) interstate arrangements, including Federal participation where authorized and necessary, and (6) leadership in a nationwide recreation and beautification effort.
(c) The Council shall assist the President in preparing periodic reports to the Congress on the subjects of this order.
SEC. 103. 
Coordination.
 The Secretary of the Interior may make available to the Council for coordination of outdoor recreation the authorities and resources available to him under the Act of May 28, 1963, 77 Stat. 49; to the extent permitted by law, he may make such authorities and resources available to the Council also for promoting such coordination of other matters assigned to the Council by this order.
SEC. 104. 
Assistance for the Council.
 In compliance with provisions of applicable law, and as necessary to serve the purposes of this order, (1) the Office of Science and Technology shall provide or arrange for necessary administrative and staff services, support, and facilities for the Council, and (2) each department and agency which has membership on the Council under Section 101(c) hereof shall furnish the Council such information and other assistance as may be available
PART II. CITIZENS' ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
SEC. 201. 
Establishment of the Committee.
 There is hereby established the Citizens' Advisory Committee on Environmental Quality (hereinafter referred to as the "Committee"). The Committee shall be composed of a chairman and not more than 14 other members appointed by the President. Appointments to membership on the Committee shall be for staggered terms, except that the chairman of the Committee shall serve until his successor is appointed.
SEC. 202. 
Functions of the Committee.
 The Committee shall advise the President and the Council on matters assigned to the Council by the provisions of this order.
SEC. 203. 
Expenses.
 Members of the Committee shall receive no compensation from the United States by reason of their services under this order but shall be entitled to receive travel and expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5701-5708) for persons in the Government service employed intermittently.
SEC. 204. 
Continuity.
 Persons who on the date of this order are members of the Citizens' Advisory Committee on Recreation and Natural Beauty established by Executive Order No. 11278 of May 4, 1966, as amended, shall, until the expirations of their respective terms and without further action by the President, be members of the Committee established by the provisions of this Part in lieu of an equal number of the members provided for in section 201 of this order.
PART III. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 301. 
Construction.
 Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any department, establishment, or other instrumentality of the executive branch of the Federal Government or the head thereof, or any function vested by law in or assigned pursuant to law to any such agency or head, to the authority of any other such agency or head or as abrogating, modifying, or restricting any such function in any manner.
SEC. 302. 
Prior bodies and orders.
 The President's Council on Recreation and Natural Beauty and the Citizens' Advisory Committee on Recreation and Natural Beauty are hereby terminated and the following are revoked:
(1) Executive Order No. 11278 of May 4, 1966.
(2) Executive Order No. 11359A of June 29, 1967.
(3) Executive Order No. 11402 of March 29, 1968.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
May 29, 1969