By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
One of America's great strengths is her diversity. A wide variety of peoples have made contributions to our nation; each has added its own strength and charm to American life, and each provides an ongoing link between our culture and those of other countries around the world.
The Hispanic culture is one to which this nation is particularly indebted. Men of Hispanic origin were among the first Europeans to explore this hemisphere. For four centuries men and women of Hispanic descent have provided distinguished leadership in our country and in other New World countries, both in government and in other walks of life.
Today the people of the United States are reminded of this rich heritage in many ways. Millions of our citizens speak Spanish, and Hispanic names and traditions grace many parts of our landscape, including both the town where I was born and the place where I am making my new home.
This country's Hispanic heritage is particularly important because it reminds us of the great traditions we share with our neighbors in Latin America. In fact, when the Congress, just a year ago, requested the President to issue annually a proclamation setting aside one week as Hispanic Heritage Week, it designated the week which includes the dates of September 15th and 16th, when five Central American nations and the Republic of Mexico celebrate their Independence Days.
The Hispanic culture is one of depth, excitement, and beauty. It has crossed borders and mountains and oceans, and has made its influence felt in all parts of the globe. In honoring it, we give strength to that international understanding which is indispensable to world order.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning September 14, 1969, as National Hispanic Heritage Week. I call upon all of the people of the United States, and especially the educational community, to observe that week with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twelfth day of Sept., in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred sixty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-fourth.
RICHARD NIXON