By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
In January and May of 1968, one hundred and fifteen units from the Reserve Components of the Army, Navy and Air Force were ordered to active duty to quickly augment the Active Forces. This action provided this. country with armed strength capability with which to meet possible contingencies that might have arisen as a result of the threats and actions by the North Koreans and the need for additional troops in Vietnam caused by the TET offensive.
Many of these units have served in Vietnam while other have served in Korea, Japan, and the United States. Those units remaining in the United States were primarily used to strengthen the strategic reserve and participate in the Military Airlift Command operations.
By June 18th, Reserve units of the Naval Air Reserve, the Naval Reserve Mobile Construction Battalions (SEABEES), the Air National Guard, and the Air Force Reserve were demobilized and the units returned to inactive reserve status. The units of the Army National Guard and the Army Reserve have now been released.
All of these Reserve Component units responded to the Nation's call in time of need and established records of performance, both in and out of combat, which have demonstrated a level of readiness and training never before achieved by our reserve forces. In addition, many individual reservists volunteered for active duty during this period. They have truly upheld the heritage and tradition of the citizen soldier and have again proven that both the National Guard and the Reserves are a great resource for our country and one which is necessary to our national security.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby issue this proclamation in recognition of and appreciation for the patriotic, dedicated and professional service of our loyal members of the Reserve Components of the Armed Forces of the United States.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 16th day of December, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-fourth.
RICHARD NIXON