By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
The men who adopted and ultimately signed the Declaration of Independence were a varied group. Lawyers, planters, physicians, farmers, merchants, politicians—their backgrounds were as different as their love of liberty was unanimous. What is perhaps even more significant than the differences in their backgrounds was the differences in their ages: three were under thirty, twenty were under forty, seven were sixty or older. The committee assigned to draft the Declaration included one of the youngest—Thomas Jefferson—and the oldest—Benjamin Franklin.
These brave men did not hold that only those in a certain age group were gifted enough to join their struggle. Each man was judged not on how old he was but on how strongly he was committed to liberty. These men debated and questioned each other as equals, because each shared the love of freedom that knows no boundary of age.
The spirit of the signers of the Declaration of Independence is needed in our nation more than ever before. Young and old, we are all Americans, and if we are to remain free we must talk to each other, listen to each other, young and old alike, in the interest of freedom.
To encourage and stimulate better communication between our citizens of different generations, the Congress by House Joint Resolution 614, has requested the President to proclaim the period from September 28, 1969, through October 4, 1969, as National Adult-Youth Communications Week.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the period from September 28 through October 4, 1969, as National Adult-Youth Communications Week.
I call upon the people of the United States to observe that week with appropriate ceremonies and activities designed to encourage cooperation—especially through the communication of ideas—between persons of different generations.
In particular, I urge all American families to foster in their homes that atmosphere of mutual trust and understanding on which human happiness and dignity depend.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 25th day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred sixty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-fourth.
RICHARD NIXON