By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
Twenty years ago, on April 4, 1949, twelve sovereign nations, determined to safeguard the freedom, common heritage, and civilization of their peoples, signed the North Atlantic Treaty. In later years, Greece, Turkey, and the Federal Republic of Germany became parties to that agreement and members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which was established to effect the Treaty's goals.
For twenty years, NATO has furthered the cause of Atlantic unity by achieving a spirit of solidarity on many common military, political, and economic problems. By promoting international security through collective defense arrangements and by fostering cooperation in the political realm, NATO has contributed to unprecedented peace and prosperity for all the peoples of the Treaty area. It has provided a stabilizing influence during times of crisis and has been a vigilant guardian in the face of threats to world peace. At the same time, NATO has steadfastly pursued the quest for improved relations between East and West, dedicated always to a peaceful settlement of European differences and to effective measures for disarmament and arms control.
Now, as NATO begins its third decade, committed still to a viable Atlantic community, to the resolution of differences between East and West, and to the stability and tranquility of our entire planet, America's commitment to NATO remains firm and vital.
Therefore, I, Richard Nixon,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby direct the attention of the Nation to this twentieth anniversary of the signing of the North Atlantic Treaty; and I call upon all agencies and officials of the Federal Government, upon the Governors of the States, and upon the officers of local governments to encourage and facilitate the suitable observance of this notable event throughout this anniversary year with particular attention to April, the month which marks the historic signing ceremony.
I also urge all citizens to participate in appropriate activities and ceremonies in recognition of the achievements of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and its contributions to America's security and well-being.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth day of March in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-third.
RICHARD NIXON