By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, and in furtherance of the purpose and policy of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (Public Law 91-190, approved January 1, 1970), it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Establishment of the Council. (a) There is hereby established the National Industrial Pollution Control Council (hereinafter referred to as "the Industrial Council") which shall be composed of a Chairman, a Vice-chairman, and other representatives of business and industry appointed by the Secretary of Commerce (hereinafter referred to as "the Secretary").
(b) The Secretary, with the concurrence of the Chairman, shall appoint an Executive Director of the Industrial Council.
SEC. 2. Functions of the Industrial Council. The Industrial Council shall advise the President and the Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality, through the Secretary, on programs of industry relating to the quality of the environment. In particular, the Industrial Council may—
(1) Survey and evaluate the plans and actions of industry in the field of environmental quality.
(2) Identify and examine problems of the effects on the environment of industrial practices and the needs of industry for improvements in the quality of the environment, and recommend solutions to those problems.
(3) Provide liaison among members of the business and industrial community on environmental quality matters.
(4) Encourage the business and industrial community to improve the quality of the environment.
(5) Advise on plans and actions of Federal, State, and local agencies involving environmental quality policies affecting industry which are referred to it by the Secretary, or by the Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality through the Secretary.
SEC. 3. Subordinate Committees. The Industrial Council may establish, with the concurrence of the Secretary, such subordinate committees as it may deem appropriate to assist in the performance of its functions. Each subordinate committee shall be headed by a chairman appointed by the Chairman of the Industrial Council with the concurrence of the Secretary.
SEC. 4. Assistance for the Industrial Council. In compliance with applicable law, and as necessary to serve the purposes of this order, the Secretary shall provide or arrange for administrative and staff services, support, and facilities for the Industrial Council and any of its subordinate committees.
SEC. 5. Expenses. Members of the Industrial Council or any of its subordinate committees shall receive no compensation from the United States by reason of their services hereunder, but may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5703) for persons in the Government service employed intermittently.
SEC. 6. Regulations. The provisions of Executive Order No. 11007 of February 26, 1962 (3 CFR 573), prescribing regulations for the formation and use of advisory committees, are hereby made applicable to the Industrial Council and each of its subordinate committees. The Secretary may exercise the discretionary powers set forth in that order.
SEC. 7. Construction. Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any Federal agency, or any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal agency to the authority of any other Federal agency or of the Industrial Council or of any of its subordinate committees, or as abrogating or restricting any such function in any manner.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
April 9, 1970