By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 301 of title 3 and section 3584 of title 5, United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. 
Leadership and coordination.
 The Secretary of State shall provide leadership and coordination for the effort of the Federal Government to increase and improve its participation in international organizations through transfers and details of well-qualified Federal employees, and shall develop policies, procedures, and programs consistent with this order to advance and encourage such participation.
SEC. 2. 
Federal agency cooperation.
 Each agency in the executive branch of the Federal Government shall to the maximum extent feasible and with due regard to its manpower requirements assist and encourage details and transfers of employees to international organizations by observing the following policies and procedures:
(1) Vacancies in international organizations shall be brought to the notice of well-qualified agency employees whose abilities and levels of responsibility in the Federal service are commensurate with those required to fill such vacancies.
(2) Subject to prior approval of his agency, no leave shall be charged an employee who is absent for a maximum of three days for interview for a proposed detail or transfer at the formal request of an international organization or a Federal official; an agency may approve official travel for necessary travel within the United States in connection with such an interview.
(3) An agency, upon request of an appropriate authority, shall provide international organizations with detailed assessments of the technical or professional qualifications of individual employees being formally considered for details and transfers to specific positions.
(4) Upon return of an employee to his agency, the agency shall give due consideration to the employee's overall qualifications, including those which may have been acquired during his service with the international organization, in determining the position and grade in which he is reemployed.
SEC. 3. 
Delegations.
 (a) Except as otherwise provided in this order, there is hereby delegated to the United States Civil Service Commission the authority vested in the President by sections 3582 (b) and 3584 of title 5, United States Code.
(b) The following are hereby delegated to the Secretary of State:
(1) The authority vested in the President by sections 3343 and 3581 of title 5, United States Code, to determine whether it is in the national interest to extend a detail or transfer of an employee beyond five years.
(2) The authority vested in the President by section 3582(b) of title 5, United States Code, to define and specify "pay, allowances, post differential, and other monetary benefits" to be paid by the agency upon reemployment, disability, or death.
SEC. 4. 
Revocation.
 Executive Order No. 10804 of February 12, 1959, is hereby revoked.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
August 24, 1970