By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
The United States has a proud record of facing up to great challenges by taking the decisive action required to meet them. Perhaps the greatest challenge to America in the 1970s will be ending the wasteful and destructive practices which have so seriously degraded our environment.
For too many years, we Americans have taken our natural resources for granted, confident that the abundant land of our forefathers would always provide enough fresh air, good water, and open space for every need.
The truth is that no new sources of fresh water have been uncovered in America for many years. At the same time, population growth and technological advances have tremendously increased both the overall and the per capita consumption of water, while inadequate treatment of wastes has contaminated more and more of our water resources.
We must act quickly and effectively to protect our waters from further deterioration and to treat wastes so the water may he used again. Only in this way will future generations of Americans be assured of an adequate supply of clean water.
To call attention to the need for a continuous program for the control and elimination of water pollution, the Congress, by a joint resolution approved December 28, 1970, requested the President to issue a proclamation designating the first full calendar week in May of 1971 as Clean Waters for America Week.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon
, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week beginning May 2, 1971, as Clean Waters for America Week.
I urge all Americans, and interested groups and organizations, to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies, activities, and educational programs, and to support community, State, and Federal efforts to clean up our national waterways and to adopt new habits and practices which will contribute to the enhancement of water quality in this country.
I also invite the Governors of the States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the Commissioner of the District of Columbia to provide for the observance of this week.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-fifth.
RICHARD NIXON