By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. once said: "I think that, as life is action and passion, it is required of a man that he should share the passion and action of his time at peril of being judged not to have lived."
We can be proud of the extent to which our young men and women today are playing an active role in the continuing growth of our Nation. In organizations as diverse as student governments, vocational education, civic, social, business, religious and social action groups, these young citizens are learning the ideals of America by putting them into practice.
Hard work, cooperation, patriotism, and individual excellence—all of these come to be cherished by those who participate constructively in this building of America. And often this learning has expanded the ideals and conscience of America, refreshing our spirit.
As we move into the third century of our republic, the mantle of responsibility and leadership will be passed to this generation of Americans. I am convinced that the youth of today will wear that mantle proudly, carry out the responsibilities of adulthood and leadership with conviction and concern for their fellow man, and reflect great credit on their country.
In recognition of the national resource America's youth represents, and to promote greater understanding between our generations, the Congress by a joint resolution approved July 2, 1971 (Public Law 92-43), designated the seven-day period beginning November 8, 1971, as Youth Appreciation Week, and requested the President to issue a proclamation calling for the observance of that week.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon
, President of the United States of America, do hereby call upon the people of the United States to observe the week of November 8 through November 14, 1971, as Youth Appreciation Week with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
I ask the education and social service professions, the communications media, and all other interested persons and groups to unite during the appointed week in public recognition of the youth of this Nation.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand this 5th day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-sixth.
RICHARD NIXON