By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
Great progress has been made in the fight against disease and disability during the past few decades. Now, with the major infectious diseases under control, medical research is giving increased attention to diseases which originate within the body such as the disabling neurological disorders.
Among the illnesses which present the greatest challenge at the present time is multiple sclerosis. Of the hundreds of thousands of Americans who suffer from diseases of the central nervous system, many are the victims of this crippling illness.
Advances in medicine result from the combined efforts of private physicians, research scientists—both in and outside of government—and voluntary health agencies such as the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, which was established over 20 years ago.
To focus the attention of the American people on the national effort to find the cause of multiple sclerosis and its cure, the Congress, by a joint resolution approved December 28, 1970, has requested the President to proclaim the period from May 9, 1971, Mother's Day, through June 20, 1971, Father's Day, as National Multiple Sclerosis Society Annual Hope Chest Appeal Weeks.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon
, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the period from May 9, 1971, through June 20, 1971, as National Multiple Sclerosis Society Annual Hope Chest Appeal Weeks. I invite the Governors of the States and the appropriate officials of other areas under the United States flag to issue similar proclamations.
I urge the people of this Nation and their educational, philanthropic, scientific, medical, and health care professions and organizations to join in providing the assistance and resources necessary to discover the cause of multiple sclerosis and its cure and to help alleviate the suffering of persons stricken by this disease.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-fifth.
RICHARD NIXON