By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
The development of microfilm technology has revolutionized the collection, retrieval, and dissemination of information, and the preservation and use of records. The industry which fostered that technology has brought great advances in efficiency and accuracy to the records of business, government, academic and cultural institutions, and other users.
Today, microfilm serves as an economical and efficient tool for banks, stores and other businesses, hospitals, schools, and libraries. It enables scholars and other researchers to expand their explorations into documentary sources without a commensurate increase in travel and other costs.
And it is invaluable to the Government, the largest single user of microfilm. For example, by maintaining social security records in microfilm, the Federal Government can keep such records up-to-date and readily accessible for fast and efficient service to our citizens. Through the use of microfilm, the National Archives and the Library of Congress can make documentary information available for research while, at the same time, they preserve original source materials which would deteriorate through heavy use.
Acknowledging the important contributions made by microfilm in the day-to-day life of America and the accomplishments of the microfilm industry, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 1193, has requested the President to designate the week which begins on September 24, 1972, as National Microfilm Week. I welcome the opportunity to do so.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon
, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning September 24, 1972, as National Microfilm Week; and I invite the Governors of the States and mayors or other appropriate local government officials to issue similar proclamations.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-seventh.
RICHARD NIXON