By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 204 of the Agricultural Act of 1956 (76 Stat. 104), as amended (7 U.S.C. 1854), and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. (a) The Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements (hereinafter referred to as the Committee), consisting of representatives of the Departments of State, the Treasury, Commerce, and Labor, with the representative of the Department of Commerce as Chairman, is hereby established to supervise the implementation of all textile trade agreements. It shall be located for administrative purposes in the Department of Commerce. The President's Special Representative for Trade Negotiations, or his designee, shall he a non-voting member of the Committee.
(b) Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section, the Chairman of the Committee, after notice to the representatives of the other member agencies, shall take such actions or shall recommend that appropriate officials or agencies of the United States take such actions as may be necessary to implement each such textile trade agreement: Provided, however, that if a majority of the voting members of the Committee have objected to such action within ten days of receipt of notice from the Chairman, such action shall not be taken except as may otherwise be authorized.
(c) To the extent authorized by the President and by such officials as the President may from time to time designate, the Committee shall take appropriate actions concerning textiles and textile products under Section 204 of the Agricultural Act of 1956, as amended, and Articles 3 and 6 of the Long Term Arrangement Regarding International Trade in Cotton Textiles done at Geneva on February 9, 1962, as extended, and with respect to any other matter affecting textile trade policy.
SEC. 2. (a) The Commissioner of Customs shall take such actions as the Committee, acting through its Chairman, shall recommend to carry out all agreements and arrangements entered into by the United States pursuant to Section 204 of the Agricultural Act of 1956, as amended, with respect to entry, or withdrawal from warehouse, for consumption in the United States of textiles and textile products.
(b) Under instructions approved by the Committee, the Secretary of State shall designate the Chairman of the United States delegation to all negotiations and consultations with foreign governments undertaken with respect to the implementation of textile trade agreements pursuant to this Order. The Secretary of State shall make such representations to foreign governments, including the presentation of diplomatic notes and other communications, as may be necessary to carry out this Order.
SEC. 3. Executive Order No. 11052 of September 28, 1962, as amended, and Executive Order No. 11214 of April 7, 1965, are hereby superseded. Directives issued thereunder to the Commissioner of Customs shall remain in full force and effect in accordance with their terms until modified pursuant to this Order.
SEC. 4. This Order shall be effective upon its publication in the Federal Register.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
March 3, 1972