By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, and in furtherance of the purpose and policy of the Fire Research and Safety Act of 1968 (15 U.S.C. 278f-278g), it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. The Federal Fire Council, an advisory agency in matters relating to the protection of Federal employees and property from fire, which was established within the General Services Administration by Executive Order No. 7397 of June 20, 1936, as amended by Executive Order No. 10257 of June 23, 1951, is hereby transferred to and established in the Department of Commerce. The Federal Fire Council, hereinafter referred to as the Council, shall, in the exercise of its functions, be responsible to the Secretary of Commerce. The Secretary or his designee shall serve as Chairman of the Council.
SEC. 2. Members of the Council, who shall serve without additional compensation, shall be officers or employees of the various departments and agencies of the Federal Government, and of the Government of the District of Columbia designated by the respective heads thereof. Each department and agency, and the Government of the District of Columbia, shall be entitled to designate one member of the Council and may designate such additional members as the governing body of the Council may authorize.
SEC. 3. The Council shall have a governing body composed of the Chairman of the Council, who shall also serve as its Chairman, and representatives of the Secretaries of the Interior, Health, Education, and Welfare, Housing and Urban Development, the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force and of the Administrator of General Services. The Chairman shall appoint such other officers and committees as he may deem necessary to carry out the functions of the Council.
SEC. 4. The Council is authorized to develop standards, procedures, and forms, and, on request, to conduct surveys or such other investigations as may be necessary to determine what measures should be taken to safeguard life and property from the hazards of fire, including review of plans for new construction. The Council is also authorized to make such independent studies of Federal buildings and property as it may deem desirable from the standpoint of fire protection and to maintain a record of fire losses on Government property.
SEC. 5. The Council shall report the results of such investigations and studies to the head of the agency concerned, together with its recommendations.
SEC. 6. In case of fires involving Government records, the agency concerned should notify the National Archives and Records Service of the General Services Administration and obtain its advice as to methods by which the maximum salvage of the records involved may be secured.
SEC. 7. In carrying out their functions under this order, the Council, its governing body, and the Secretary of Commerce shall consult, as appropriate, with the Federal Advisory Council on Occupational Safety and Health established by Executive Order No. 11612 of July 26, 1971.
SEC. 8. Executive Orders No. 7397 of June 20, 1936, and No. 10257 of June 23, 1951, are hereby superseded.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
March 13, 1972