By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
As the astronauts of Skylab I orbit the earth in America's first manned space station, we are mindful once again of the essential unity of mankind—bound together by the finite resources of one small planet. One of the chief concerns of this and subsequent space missions will be the resources of the earth and the quality of its environment. As before, our findings will form the basis for positive contributions to our fellow man.
But we do not have to rely upon the results of space research to improve the earth's environment. All men and women have a personal role to play in this vital endeavor. The United Nations Conference on the Human Environment held last June, with the participation of one hundred and thirteen nations, was a reflection of the increased understanding of all mankind that environmental quality is everybody's business—superseding any temporary differences which may hamper relations between nations.
In response to a resolution of the Conference on the Human Environment, the United Nations General Assembly last December endorsed a recommendation reading, in part, as follows:
"The General Assembly . . . designates 5 June as World Environment Day and urges Governments and the organizations in the United Nations System to undertake on that day every year world-wide activities reaffirming their concern for the preservation and enhancement of the environment, with a view to deepening environmental awareness and to pursuing the determination expressed at the Conference."
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon
, President of the United States of America, do, in support of the action of the United Nations General Assembly, call on the people of the United States and United States Government agencies to observe June 5 as World Environment Day with appropriate ceremonies and activities emphasizing the concern of Americans for a better environment in which to live.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of June in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-seventh.
RICHARD NIXON