By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 311 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 (Public Law 92-500; 86 Stat. 816 at 862; 33 U.S.C. 1321), hereinafter referred to as the act, by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency is hereby designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the following:
(1) the authority of the President under subsections
(b) (3) and (b) (4) of section 311 of the act, relating to the determination of those quantities of oil and hazardous substances the discharge of which, at such times, locations, circumstances, and conditions, will be harmful to the public health or welfare of the United States and those which will not be harmful;
(2) the authority of the President under subsection
(c) (2) (G) of section 311 of the act, relating to identification of dispersants and other chemicals to be used;
(3) the authority of the President under subsection (e) of section 311 of the act, relating to determinations of imminent and substantial threat because of actual or threatened discharges of oil or hazardous substances from non-transportation-related onshore and offshore facilities, and relating to securing relief necessary to abate such actual or threatened discharges through court action; and
(4) the authority of the President under subsection (j) (1) (C) of section 311 of the act, relating to the establishment of procedures, methods, and equipment and other requirements for equipment to prevent discharges of oil and hazardous substances from non-transportation-related onshore and offshore facilities, and to contain such discharges.
SEC. 2. Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is Operating. The Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating is hereby designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the following:
(1) the authority of the President under subsection (e) of section 311 of the act, relating to determinations of imminent and substantial threat because of actual or threatened discharges of oil or hazardous substances from transportation-related onshore and offshore facilities, and relating to securing relief necessary to abate such actual or threatened discharges through court action;
(2) the authority of the President under subsection (j) (1) (C) of section 311 of the act, relating to the establishment of procedures, methods; and equipment and other requirements for equipment to prevent discharges of oil and hazardous substances from vessels and transportation-related onshore and offshore facilities, and to contain such discharges;
(3) the authority of the President under subsection (j) (1) (D) of section 311 of the act, relating to the inspection of vessels carrying cargoes of oil and hazardous substances and the inspection of such cargoes;
(4) the authority to administer the revolving fund established pursuant to subsection (k) of section 311 of the act; and
(5) the authority under subsection (m) of section 311 of the act, relating to the boarding and inspection of vessels, the arrest of persons violating section 311, and the execution of warrants or other process pursuant to that section.
SEC. 3. Federal Maritime Commission. The Federal Maritime Commission is designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the following:
(1) the authority of the President under subsection (p) (1) of section 311 of the act, relating to the issuance of regulations governing evidence of financial responsibility for vessels to meet liability to the United States; and
(2) the authority under subsection (p) (2) of section 311 of the act, relating to the administration of subsection (p).
SEC. 4. Council on Environmental Quality. The Council on Environmental Quality is hereby designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the authority under subsection (c) (2) of section 311 of the act, providing for the preparation, publication, revision or amendment of a National Contingency Plan for the removal of oil and hazardous substance discharges (hereinafter referred to as the National Contingency Plan).
SEC. 5. Other Assignments.
(a) The head of each Federal department and agency having responsibilities under the National Contingency Plan (36 F.R. 16215), as now or hereafter amended, is designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, in accordance with. that plan, the authority under subsection (c) (1) of section 311 of the act, relating to the removal of oil and hazardous substances discharged into or upon the navigable waters of the United States, adjoining shorelines, or into or upon the waters of the contiguous zone.
(b) The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating, respectively, in and for the waters and areas for which each has responsibility for providing or furnishing on-scene-coordinators under the National Contingency Plan, are designated and empowered to exercise, without approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the following:
(1) the authority under subsection (c) (2) (C) of section 311 of the act, relating to the determination of major ports for establishment of emergency task forces;
(2) the authority under subsection (d) of section 311 of the act, relating to the coordination and direction of the removal or elimination of threats of pollution hazards from discharges, or imminent discharges, of oil or hazardous substances, and the removal and destruction of vessels;
(3) the authority of the President under subsection (j) (1) (A) of section 311 of the act, relating to the establishment of methods and procedures for the removal of discharged oil and hazardous substances; and
(4) the authority of the President under subsection (j) (1) (B) of section 311 of the act, relating to the establishment of criteria for the development and implementation of local and regional oil and hazardous substance removal contingency plans.
(c) The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating are designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the authority of the President under section 311(j) (2) with respect to assessing and compromising civil penalties in connection with enforcement of the respective regulations issued by each pursuant to this order.
SEC. 6. Consultation. Authorities and functions delegated or assigned by this order shall be exercised subject to consultation with the Secretaries of departments and the heads of agencies with operating or regulatory responsibilities which may be significantly affected.
SEC. 7. Agency to Receive Notices of Discharges of Oil or Hazardous Substances. The Coast Guard is hereby designated the "appropriate agency" for the purpose of receiving the notice of discharge of oil or hazardous substances required by subsection (b) (5) of section 311 of the act. The Commandant of the Coast Guard shall issue regulations implementing this designation.
SEC. 8. Without derogating from any action heretofore taken thereunder, Executive Order No. 11548 of July 20, 1970, is hereby superseded.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
August 3, 1973.