By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
ENLARGING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE CABRILLO NATIONAL MONUMENT, CALIFORNIA 
The Cabrillo National Monument in San Diego County, California, was established by Proclamation No. 1255 of October 14, 1913 (38 Stat. 1965), on approximately one-half acre of land that, along with other lands, had originally been set aside for military purposes in 1852. The monument was enlarged by Proclamation No. 3273 of February 2, 1959, and now is situated on approximately eighty and one-half acres of land. The present area of the monument is not adequate for the proper care and management of the historical landmarks and historical objects in the area and it has been determined that approximately fifty-six and six-tenths acres of land should be added to the monument site. That new land is contiguous to the monument site and constitutes a part of the lands set aside but no longer needed for military purposes. 
The additional land is essential to the proper care and management of the historical landmarks and historical objects in the area, and it is in the public interest to re-define the boundaries of, and add those contiguous lands to the monument to preserve the historical landmarks and historical objects of the area. 
Under section 2 of the act of June 8, 1906 (34 Siat. 225, 16 U.S.C. 431), the President is authorized "to declare by public proclamation historic landmarks, historic and prehistoric structures, and objects of historic or scientific interest that are situated upon the lands owned or controlled by the Government of the United States to be national monuments, and may reserve as a part thereof parcels of land, the limits of which in all cases shall be confined to the smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the objects to 'be protected, The monument, as enlarged by this Proclamation, will be confined to the smallest area compatible with the protection and management of the objects to be protected. 
Now, Therefore, I, Gerald R. Ford,
 President of the United States of America, under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 2 of the act of Congress approved June 8, 1906, 34 Stat. 225 (16 U.S.C. 431), do hereby proclaim that, subject to valid existing rights, the lands owned or controlled by the United States within the following described lands are hereby added to and made a part of the Cabrillo National Monument: 
[For the land description contained at this point in the proclamation, see the Federal Register of October 1, 1974.]
 
The withdrawal order of February 26, 1852, is hereby revoked as to the lands described above. 
The lands added to the monument by this Proclamation are hereby transferred from the jurisdiction of the Department of the Navy to the jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior, and Proclamation No. 1255 establishing, and Proclamation No. 3273 enlarging, the Cabrillo National Monument are amended accordingly. 
Warning is hereby expressly given to all unauthorized persons not to appropriate, injure, destroy, deface, or remove any feature of this monument and not to locate or settle upon any of the lands reserved by this Proclamation. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-ninth. 
GERALD R. FORD