The Trade Act of 1974 authorizes the establishment of a Generalized System of Preferences for eligible articles imported from beneficiary developing countries. 
The President has designated and may, by Executive order, designate certain countries as beneficiary developing countries, after having determined that such designations are in accordance with the provisions of the Trade Act of 1974 and after having provided the necessary information to the Congress, pursuant to Section 502 of the Trade Act of 1974. The necessary determinations have been made and the appropriate information has been furnished the Congress. 
The President may, by Executive order, designate articles eligible for duty-free treatment after receiving advice from appropriate agencies, public comment, and the advice of the International Trade Commission. That advice has been received, as requested, by reference to item numbers, and statistical divisions thereof, contained in the Tariff Schedules of the United States, hereinafter sometimes referred to as TSUS. 
Since not every article within the group represented by an item number of the Tariff Schedules of the United States is eligible for duty-free treatment under a Generalized System of Preferences, it is necessary to subdivide some of the existing item numbers. 
In order to implement the Generalized System of Preferences and to remove expired provisions of the TSUS, relating to the Philippine Republic and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, it is necessary to amend the Tariff Schedules of the United States, thus embodying the substance of relevant provisions of the Trade Act of 1974, and of actions taken thereunder, into the Tariff Schedules of the United States. 
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, including Title V and Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974 (88 Stat. 2066, 19 U.S.C. 2461 et seq; 88 Stat. 2073, 19 U.S.C. 2483), and as President of the United States of America, in order to designate additional beneficiary developing countries and eligible articles, and to implement a Generalized System of Preferences, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. The following expired headnotes and items for the products of the Philippine Republic and of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands are deleted from the Tariff Schedules of the United States: 
 
SEC. 2. The article descriptions, including superior headings, for TSUS items 175.09 and 176.04 are amended to read, respectively, "Copra" and "Coconut Oil". 
SEC. 3. A column entitled "GSP" is added to the left of, and adjacent to, the column entitled "Item" on each page of schedules 1 through 7 of the TSUS. The designations "A" or "A*", as specified in general headnote 3 (c) (ii) of the TSUS, as added by Section 9 of this Order, shall be placed in the column entitled "GSP" opposite the TSUS item number of each article which has been designated as an eligible article for purposes of the Generalized System of Preferences. 
SEC. 4. In order to subdivide existing items for purposes of the Generalized System of Preferences, the Tariff Schedules of the United States are amended as provided in Annex I, attached hereto and made a part hereof. 
SEC. 5. The articles, identified by item numbers of the Tariff Schedules of the United States, as modified by this Order, set forth in Annex II and Annex III, attached hereto and made a part hereof, are designated, pursuant to Section 503 of the Trade Act of 1974 (88 Stat. 2069, 19 U.SC. 2463), as eligible articles for purposes of the Generalized System of Preferences, and shall be given duty-free treatment as set forth in General Headnote 3 (c) of the TSUS, as added by Section 9 of this Order. 
SEC. 6. The designation "A" shall be inserted in the column entitled "GSP" of the TSUS, as modified by this Order, opposite the TSUS item numbers set forth in Annex II of this Order. 
SEC. 7. The designation "A*" shall be inserted in the column entitled "GSP" of the TSUS, as modified by this Order, opposite the TSUS item numbers set forth in Annex III of this Order. 
SEC. 8. The countries set forth in General Headnote 3 (c) (i) of the TSUS, as added by Section 9 of this Order, are hereby designated as beneficiary developing countries. 
SEC. 9. A new General Headnote 3 (c) of the TSUS is hereby added as follows: 
"(c) Products of Countries Designated Beneficiary Developing Countries for Purposes of the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP):
"(i) The following countries and territories are designated beneficiary developing countries for purposes of the Generalized System of Preferences, provided for in Title V of the Trade Act of 1974 (88 Stat. 2066, 19 U.S.C. 2461 et seq.):
"(ii) Articles for which the designations "A" or "A*" appear in the column entitled "GSP" of the schedules are those designated by the President to be eligible articles for purposes of the GSP pursuant to Section 503 of the Trade Act. The designation "A" signifies that all beneficiary developing countries are eligible for preferential treatment with respect to all articles provided for in the designated TSUS item, while the designation "A*" indicates that certain beneficiary developing countries, specifically enumerated in subdivision (c) (iii) of this headnote, are not eligible for such preferential treatment with regard to any article provided for in the designated TSUS item. Whenever an eligible article is imported into the customs territory of the United States directly from a country or territory listed in subdivision (c) (i) of this headnote, it shall receive duty-free treatment, unless excluded from such treatment by subdivision (c) (iii) of this headnote, provided that, in accordance with regulations promulgated by the Secretary of the Treasury:
"(A) The sum of (1) the cost or value of the materials produced in the beneficiary developing country, plus (2) the direct costs of processing operations performed in such country is not less than 35 percent of the appraised value of such article at the time of its entry into the customs territory of the United States; or
"(B) The sum of (1) the cost or value of the material produced in two or more beneficiary developing countries which are members of the same association of countries which is treated as one country under Section 502(a) (3) of the Trade Act, plus (2) the direct cost of processing operations performed in such countries is not less than 50 percent of the appraised value of such article at the time of its entry into the customs territory of the United States; "and provided further that, for the purposes of (A) above, the term "country" does not include an association of countries which is treated as one country under Section 502(a) (3) of the Trade Act, but does include a country which is a member of any such association.
"(iii) The following designated eligible articles provided for in TSUS item numbers preceded by the designation "A*", if imported from a beneficiary developing country set opposite the TSUS item numbers listed below, are not entitled to the duty-free treatment provided for in subdivision (c) (ii) of this headnote:
SEC. 10. The provisions of this Order shall be effective with respect to articles that are both (1) imported, and (2) (a) entered for consumption or (b) withdrawn from warehouse for consumption on or after the effective date of this Order. 
SEC. 11. Executive Order No. 11844 of March 24, 1975, is superseded. 
SEC. 12. This Order shall be effective on January 1, 1976. 
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
November 24, 1975.