Title V of the Trade Act of 1974, hereinafter referred to as the Act (Public Law 93-618, 88 Stat. 1978), provides for a Generalized System of Preferences by which eligible articles from a beneficiary developing country may be provided duty-free treatment. 
The Act authorizes the President to designate a country as a beneficiary developing country if such country meets the qualifications of the Act. Prior thereto, the President is to notify the House of Representatives and the Senate of his intention to make such designations and of the considerations entering into such decisions. I have so notified the House of Representatives and the Senate with respect to the countries listed in this Executive order. 
In order to implement the Generalized System of Preferences, the Trade Act requires (1) designation of beneficiary developing countries, (2) publication and transmission to the International Trade Commission of the lists of articles which will be considered for designation as eligible articles for purposes of generalized preferences, and (3) submission by the International Trade Commission of its advice to the President within six months as to the probable economic effect on domestic producers and consumers of implementing generalized preferences for those listed articles. 
Concurrently with publication of those listed articles and transmission thereof to the International Trade Commission for its advice as required by the Act, I also intend to ask the Commission to provide its advice, pursuant to Section 332(g) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1332), with respect to articles of those countries designated and those which are still under consideration for designation as beneficiary developing countries. 
The President is authorized to modify at any time the list of beneficiary developing countries designated herein, and for that purpose there shall be a continuing review of the eligibility of countries to be so designated under the provisions of the Act. 
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Trade Act of 1974, and as President of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. The following named countries are designated as beneficiary developing countries for purposes of the Generalized System of Preferences authorized by Title V of the Act: 
(a) Those Responsible for Their Own External Relations.
 
(b) Those for Whom Another Country is Responsible for Their External Relations.
SEC. 2. The following named countries are identified as under consideration for designation as beneficiary developing countries in accordance with the criteria set forth in Title V of the Act:
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
March 24, 1975.