By virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 1(c)(2) of the Act to provide for final settlement of the conflicting rights and interests of the Hopi and Navajo Tribes concerning lands within the reservation established by the Executive order of December 16, 1882, and lands within the reservation created by the Act of June 14, 1934, and for other purposes (Public Law 93-531, approved December 22, 1974, hereinafter referred to as the Act), and as President of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: 
Section 1. There is established the Hopi-Navajo Land Settlement Interagency Committee (hereinafter referred to as the Committee). The membership of the Committee shall consist of the Secretary of the Interior, who shall be its Chairman, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. 
Sec. 2. Functions of the Committee. (a) The Committee shall, to the extent permitted by law and as provided by Section 1(c)(2) of the Act, develop relevant information for and respond to the requests of the Mediator. The Mediator shall be appointed by the Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service pursuant to Section 1(a) of the Act, and shall facilitate the compilation and development of information concerning negotiations under the Act. 
(b) The Chairman shall call meetings of the Committee and shall establish liaison with the Mediator. This shall be done so the Committee can, in view of the time limit set for the negotiating process by Section 3(a) of the Act, provide information and assistance to the Mediator as expeditiously as practicable. 
Sec. 3. The Department of the Interior shall, to the extent permitted by law, furnish the Committee such administrative services and support as may be necessary. 
Sec. 4. The Committee shall terminate upon the completion of the Mediator's duties, as determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 1(a) of the Act. The Mediator shall advise the Chairman when his duties have ceased. Any records which may have been maintained by the Committee shall be transferred to the Secretary of the Interior. 
GERALD R. FORD
THE WHITE HOUSE,
January 6, 1975.