By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The United States can ill-afford to continue to see its resources devoured by ruinous fires. The personal suffering and loss of life, and the destruction of our national wealth and production capabilities, are a needless drain on our Nation. We need to eliminate it. 
A recent Bureau of Census survey of household fires indicates that annually one in every sixteen households has a fire which does or could have disastrous result. Most of these fires are avoidable-caused by needless and careless acts. Our national goal should be to achieve an annual reduction in fire deaths, injuries and property losses, cutting those losses in half within a generation. Every American can and must help to prevent these fires. 
The business community has a special responsibility to provide fire-safe products. Builders, architects and engineers have a responsibility to provide fire-safe places in which to work and live. Local governments have a responsibility to enact and enforce adequate codes and encourage good fire prevention practices. And fire departments have important responsibilities in providing strong fire prevention programs in their communities, as well as to fight fires and save lives when all else fails. 
Now, Therefore, I, Gerald R. Ford,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week beginning October 5, 1975, as Fire Prevention Week. I call upon each individual and family to participate in the programs of Fire Survival and Exit Drills In The Home to assure safe evacuation in emergencies; and for businesses to conduct year-round fire prevention to include emphasis of on-and-off-the-job applications of fire safety practices. 
I also call upon the National Fire Protection Association, members of the joint Council of National Fire Service Organizations, and other fire safety organizations to join with the National Fire Prevention and Control Administration in providing leadership and materials for a national fire prevention effort. 
Local community and fire department organizations are asked to provide the direction and support necessary to assure that each home and business is invited to participate in Fire Prevention Week activities; and Federal agencies are asked to provide an example for the Nation by communicating fire-safe practices to all employees, and by cooperating in State and local activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundredth. 
GERALD R. FORD