By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States of America, and as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. There is established a Vice Presidential Service Badge to be awarded in the name of the Vice President of the United States of America to members of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Coast Guard who have been assigned to duty in the Office of the Vice President for a period of at least one year subsequent to December 19, 1974. 
SEC. 2. The Vice Presidential Service Badge may be awarded, upon recommendation of the Military Assistant to the Vice President, by the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Navy, the Secretary of the Air Force, or, when the Coast Guard is not operating as a service in the Navy, the Secretary of Transportation, to military personnel of their respective services who have been assigned to duty in the Office of the Vice President. 
SEC. 3. The Vice Presidential Service Badge shall be accompanied by a certificate, the design of which is attached hereto and is made a part of this Order. The Vice Presidential Service Badge shall consist of a white enameled disc surrounded by 27 gold rays radiating from the center, 1 15/16 inches in diameter overall. Superimposed on the white disc shall be a gold color device taken from the seal of the Vice President of the United States. The overall design of the badge shall be as shown at the top of the certificate which accompanies the Badge and which is attached to this Order. 
SEC. 4. Upon award, the Vice Presidential Service Badge may be worn as a part of the uniform of an individual both during and after his assignment to duty in the Office of the Vice President. 
SEC. 5. Only one Vice Presidential Service Badge shall be awarded to an individual. It may be awarded posthumously. 
SEC. 6. Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 1 and 2 of this Order, any member of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard, who has been assigned to duty in the Office of the Vice President, is authorized to wear the Vice Presidential Service Badge on his uniform commencing on the first day of duty in the Office of the Vice President and thereafter while assigned to such duty. 
SEC. 7. Executive Order No. 11544 of July 8, 1970, is hereby superseded; however, individuals previously awarded a Vice Presidential Service Badge under that Order are authorized to continue to wear such badge as part of their uniform.
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
July 19, 1976.