The United States has entered into the Agreement on an International Energy Program of November 18, 1974, which created the International Energy Agency. This program is a substantial factor in the conduct of our foreign relations and an important element of our national security. The effectiveness of the Agreement depends significantly upon the provision and exchange of information and material by participants in advisory bodies created by the International Energy Agency. Confidentiality is essential to assure the free and open discussion necessary to accomplish the tasks assigned to those bodies. I have consulted with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General and the Administrator of the Federal Energy Administration concerning the handling and safeguarding of information and material in the possession of the United States which has been obtained pursuant to the program, and I find that some of such information and material requires protection as provided in Executive Order No. 11652 of March 8, 1972, as amended.
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the United States, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Information and material obtained pursuant to the International Energy Program and which requires protection against unauthorized disclosure in the interest of the national defense or foreign relations of the United States shall be classified pursuant to Executive Order No. 11652 of March 8, 1972, as amended. The Secretary of State shall have the responsibility for the classification, declassification and safeguarding of information and material in the possession of the United States Government which has been obtained pursuant to:
(a) Section 252 (c) (3), (d) (2) or (e) (3) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (89 Stat. 871; 42 U.S.C. 6272 (c) (3), (d) (2), (e) (3)), or
(b) The Voluntary Agreement and Program relating to the International Energy Program (40 F.R. 16041, April 8, 1975), or
(c) Any similar Voluntary Agreement and Program entered into under the Energy Policy and Conservation Act after the date of this Order.
SEC. 2. Information or material classified pursuant to Section 1 of this Order may be exempted from the General Declassification Schedule established by Section 5 of Executive Order No. 11652 if it was obtained by the United States on the understanding that it be kept in confidence, or if it might otherwise be exempted under Section 5 (B) of such Order.
SEC. 3. (a) Within 60 days of the date of this Order, the Secretary of State shall promulgate regulations which implement his responsibilities under this Order.
(b) The directives issued under Section 6 of Executive Order No. 11652 shall not apply to information and material classified under this Order. However, the regulations promulgated by the Secretary of State shall:
(1) conform, to the extent practicable, to the policies set forth in Section 6 of Executive Order No. 11652; and
(2) provide that he may take such measures as he deems necessary and appropriate to ensure the confidentiality of any information and material classified under this Order that may remain in the custody or control of any person outside the United States Government.
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
August 4, 1976.