By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Two hundred years ago, on June 14, 1777, the Continental Congress adopted the Stars and Stripes as the official flag of the United States. 
In these two centuries our Nation has changed in many ways, but our flag remains an appropriate symbol of America. Its bold colors reflect the courage and determination of the American people, as its straight and simple lines reflect their straightforward character. 
In celebrating this two hundredth anniversary let us resolve to honor our country's flag by displaying in our lives the qualities it reflects. 
To commemorate the adoption of our Nation's flag, the Congress, by joint resolution of August 3, 1949 (63 Stat. 492, 36 U.S.C. 157), has requested the President to issue annually a proclamation calling for its appropriate observance. By joint resolution of June 9, 1966 (80 Stat. 194, 36 U.S.C. 157a), the Congress also requested the President to issue annually a proclamation designating the week which includes June 14 as National Flag Week. 
To encourage the American people to take pride in the Nation which that flag symbolizes, the Congress, by joint resolution of June 13, 1975 (89 Stat. 211, 36 U.S.C. 157b), has declared the twenty-one days from Flag Day through Independence Day as a period to honor America. 
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week beginning June 12, 1977, as National Flag Week and I call upon the appropriate officials of the Government to display the flag on all Government buildings during that week. I urge the American people to celebrate Flag Day and National Flag Week by displaying the flag of the United States at their homes and other suitable places. 
I also call upon all Americans to observe the period from Flag Day through Independence Day as a period to honor America through public gatherings and other suitable activities that will demonstrate their pride in their Nation and its accomplishments. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eleventh day of June in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and first.
JIMMY CARTER