RELATING TO ENERGY POLICY AND 
CONSERVATION 
By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes of the United States of America, including the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (89 Stat. 371, 42 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.), the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.), Section 205(a) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 486 (a)), and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
SECTION 1. Section 1 of Executive Order No. 11912 of April 13, 1976, is amended to read as follows: 
"Section 1. (a) The Administrator of General Services is designated and empowered to perform, without approval, ratification or other action by the President, the function vested in the President by Section 510 of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act, as amended (89 Stat. 915, 15 U.S.C. 2010). In performing this function, the Administrator of General Services shall: 
( 1 ) Promulgate rules which will ensure that the minimum statutory requirement for fleet average fuel economy is exceeded (i) for fiscal year 1978 by 2 miles per gallon, (ii) for fiscal year 1979 by 3 miles per gallon, and (iii) for fiscal years 1980 and after by 4 miles per gallon. 
(2) Promulgate rules which will ensure that Executive agencies do not acquire, subsequent to fiscal year 1977, any passenger automobile unless such automobile meets or exceeds the average fuel economy standard for the appropriate model year established by, or pursuant to, Section 502(a) of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 2002(a)); except that, such rules (i) shall not apply to automobiles designed to perform combat-related missions for the Armed Forces or designed to be used in law enforcement work or emergency rescue work, and (ii) may provide for granting exemptions for individual automobiles used for special purposes as determined to be appropriate by the Administrator of General Services with the concurrence of the Administrator of the Federal Energy Administration. 
"(b) The Administrator of General Services shall promulgate rules which will ensure that each class of nonpassenger automobiles acquired by all Executive agencies in each fiscal year, beginning with fiscal year 1979, achieve for such fiscal year a fleet average fuel economy not less than the average fuel economy standard for such class, established pursuant to Section 502(b) of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act, as amended (89 Stat. 903, 15 U.S.C. 2002(b)), for the model year which includes January 1 of such fiscal year; except that, such rules (1) shall not apply to automobiles designed to perform combat-related missions for the Armed Forces or designed to be used in law enforcement work or emergency rescue work, and (2) may provide for granting exceptions for other categories of automobiles used for special purposes as determined to be appropriate by the Administrator of General Services with the concurrence of the Administrator of the Federal Energy Administration.". 
SEC. 2. Executive Order No. 11912 of April 13, 1976, is further amended by adding the following new Section: 
"Sec. 10. (a)(1) The Administrator of the Federal Energy Administration, hereinafter referred to as the Administrator, shall develop, with the concurrence of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs, the Administrator of the Energy Research and Development Administration, the Administrator of General Services, and the heads of such other Executive agencies as he deems appropriate, the ten-year plan for energy conservation with respect to Government buildings, as provided by section 381 (a) (2) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6361 (a) (2)). 
(2) The goals established in subsection (b) shall apply to the following categories of Federally-owned buildings: (i) office buildings, (ii) hospitals, (iii) schools, (iv) prison facilities, (v) multifamily dwellings, (vi) storage facilities, and (vii) such other categories of buildings for which the Administrator determines the establishment of energy-efficiency performance goals is feasible. 
"(b) The Administrator shall establish requirements and procedures, which shall be observed by each agency unless a waiver is granted by the Administrator, designed to ensure that each agency to the maximum extent practicable aims to achieve the following goals: 
(1) For the total of all Federally owned existing buildings the goal shall be a reduction of 20 percent in the average annual energy use per gross square foot of floor area in 1985 from the average energy use per gross square foot of floor area in 1975. This goal shall apply to all buildings for which construction was or design specifications were completed prior to the date of promulgation of the guidelines pursuant to subsection (d) of this Section. 
(2) For the total of all Federally owned new buildings the goal shall be a reduction of 45 percent in the average annual energy requirement per gross square foot of floor area in 1985 from the average annual energy use per gross square foot of floor area in 1975. This goal shall apply to all new buildings for which design specifications are completed after the date of promulgation of the guidelines pursuant to subsection (d) of this Section. 
"(c) The Administrator, with the concurrence of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in consultation with the heads of the Executive agencies specified in subsection (a) and the Director of the National Bureau of Standards, shall establish, for purposes of developing the ten-year plan, a practical and effective method for estimating and comparing life cycle capital and operating costs for Federal buildings, including residential, commercial, and industrial type categories. Such method shall be consistent with the Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-94, and shall be adopted and used by all agencies in developing their plans pursuant to subsection (e), annual reports pursuant to subsection (g), and budget estimates pursuant to subsection (h). For purposes of this paragraph, the term "life cycle cost" means the total costs of owning, operating, and maintaining a building over its economic life, including its fuel and energy costs, determined on the basis of a systematic evaluation and comparison of alternative building systems. 
"(d) Not later than November 1, 1977, the Administrator, with the concurrence of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and after consultation with the Administrator of General Services and the heads of the Executive agencies specified in subsection (a) shall issue guidelines for the plans to be submitted pursuant to subsection (e). 
"(e) (1) The head of each Executive agency that maintains any existing building or will maintain any new building shall submit no later than six months after the issuance of guidelines pursuant to subsection (d), to the Administrator a ten year plan designed to the maximum extent practicable to meet the goals in subsection (b) for the total of existing or new Federal buildings. Such ten-year plans shall only consider improvements that are cost-effective consistent with the criteria established by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB Circular A-94) and the method established pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section. The plan submitted shall specify appropriate energy-saving initiatives and shall estimate the expected improvements by fiscal year in terms of specific accomplishments-energy savings and cost savings-together with the estimated costs of achieving the savings. 
(2) The plans submitted shall, to the maximum extent practicable, include the results of preliminary energy audits of all existing buildings with over 30,000 gross square feet of space owned and maintained by Executive agencies. Further, the second annual report submitted under subsection (g)(2) of this Section shall, to the maximum extent practicable, include the results of preliminary energy audits of all existing buildings with more than 5,000 but not more than 30,000 gross square feet of space. The purpose of such preliminary energy audits shall be to identify the type, size, energy use level and major energy using systems of existing Federal buildings. 
(3) The Administrator shall evaluate agency plans relative to the guidelines established pursuant to subsection (d) for such plans and relative to the cost estimating method established pursuant to subsection (c). Plans determined to be deficient by the Administrator will be returned to the submitting agency head for revision and resubmission within 60 days. 
(4) The head of any Executive agency submitting a plan, should he disagree with the Administrator's determination with respect to that plan, may appeal to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget for resolution of the disagreement. 
"(f) The head of each agency submitting a plan or revised plan determined not deficient by the Administrator or, on appeal, by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, shall implement the plan in accord with approved budget estimates. 
"(g) (1) Each Executive agency shall submit to the Administrator an overall plan for conserving fuel and energy in all operations of the agency. This overall plan shall be in addition to and include any ten-year plan for energy conservation in Government buildings submitted in accord with Subsection (e). 
(2) By July 1 of each year, each Executive agency shall submit a report to the Administrator on progress made toward achieving the goals established in the overall plan required by paragraph (1) of this subsection. The annual report shall include quantitative measures and accomplishment with respect to energy saving actions taken, the cost of these actions, the energy saved, the costs saved, and other benefits realized. 
(3) The Administrator shall prepare a consolidated annual report on Federal government progress toward achieving the goals, including aggregate quantitative measures of accomplishment as well as suggested revisions to the ten-year plan, and submit the report to the President by August 15 of each year. 
"(h) Each agency required to submit a plan shall submit to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget with the agency's annual budget submission, and in accordance with procedures and requirements that the Director shall establish, estimates for implementation of the agency's plan. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall consult with the Administrator about the agency budget estimates. 
"(i) Each agency shall program its proposed energy conservation improvements of buildings so as to give the highest priority to the most cost-effective projects. 
"(j) No agency of the Federal government may enter into a lease or a commitment to lease a building the construction of which has not commenced by the effective date of this Order unless the building will likely meet or exceed the general goal set forth in subsection (b) (2). 
"(k) The provisions of this section do not apply to housing units repossessed by the Federal Government.". 
JIMMY CARTER
The White House, July 20, 1977.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 12:11 p.m., July 21, 1977]