By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to create in accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I) an advisory commission on the problems of hunger and malnutrition, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
1-1. Establishment of Commission. 
1-101. There is established the Presidential Commission on World Hunger. 
1-102. The membership of the Commission shall be composed of not more than 20 persons from among citizens in public and private life as follows: 
(a) Sixteen members shall be appointed by the President, who shall designate a Chairman and two Vice Chairmen. 
(b) The President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives are each invited to designate two Members of their respective Houses to serve on the Commission. 
1-2. Functions of the Commission. 
1-201. The Commission shall develop factual data as to the causes of world hunger and malnutrition. It shall review existing authorities and programs, public and private, national and international, which seek to address the problems of hunger and malnutrition; and, shall assess the extent to which those programs are meeting their objectives, and why. 
1-202. In developing its data and assessing existing programs, the Commission shall review existing studies on world hunger and malnutrition, conduct additional studies where necessary, and hold such hearings or inquiries as may be helpful. 
1-203. The Commission shall develop recommendations designed to significantly reduce world hunger and malnutrition; and, shall develop various options for harnessing available resources to carry out those recommendations, including policy options for improving the capacity of the United States to reduce the problems of world hunger and malnutrition. 
1-204. In developing its recommendations, the Commission shall encourage public participation by holding hearings, issuing reports, and coordinating, sponsoring, or overseeing projects, studies, and other activities related to the understanding of the problems of world hunger and malnutrition. The maximum use shall be made of past and ongoing related government efforts of that nature. 
1-205. The Commission shall coordinate its functions with local, state, national, and international agencies and organizations where appropriate. 
1-206. An interim report on the status of its work and on its tentative recommendations shall be submitted to the President no later than July 31, 1979. 
1-3. Administrative Provisions. 
1-301. The Commission may establish subcommittees. Private citizens who are not members of the Commission may be included as members of subcommittees. 
1-302. The Commission may request any Executive agency to furnish such information, advice, and services as may be useful for the fulfillment of the Commission's functions under this Order. Each agency shall designate an agency liaison with the Commission and shall, to the extent permitted by law and overriding priorities, and within the limits of available funds and personnel resources, furnish such information, advice, and services to the Commission upon the written request of the Chairman of the Commission. 
1-303. The Commission is authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of a staff and such other persons as may be necessary to enable it to carry out its functions. The Commission may obtain services in accordance with the provisions of Section 3109 of Title 5 of the United States Code, to the extent funds are available therefor. 
1-304. Each member of the Commission and its subcommittees may receive, to the extent permitted by law, compensation for each day he or she is engaged in meetings of the Commission or its subcommittees at a rate not to exceed the daily rate now or hereafter prescribed by law for GS-15 of the General Schedule, and may also receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and 5703) for persons employed intermittently in the government service. 
1-305. The General Services Administration shall provide administrative services, facilities, and support to the Commission on a reimbursable basis. 
1-306. All necessary expenses incurred in connection with the work of the Commission shall be paid from the appropriation for "Unanticipated Needs" in the Executive Office Appropriations Act, 1978, or from such other funds as may be available. 
1-307. The functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I), which are applicable to the Commission, except that of reporting annually to the Congress, shall be performed by the Administrator of General Services as provided by Executive Order No. 12024 of December 1, 1977. 
1-4. General Provisions. 
1-401. The Commission shall conclude its work and submit a final report to the President at least 30 days prior to its termination, including its recommendations for improving the United States' capacity to reduce the problems of hunger and malnutrition. 
1-402. The Commission shall terminate on June 30, 1980 or earlier as directed by the President.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
September 5, 1978. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 1:45 p.m., September 5, 1978]