By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Courageous firefighters have protected the lives of their neighbors from the ravages of fire since the beginning of civilization. 
Volunteer and professional firefighters are members of America's most hazardous profession. More than half of the injuries in fires each year are sustained by firefighters, over 55,000 each year. 
Numerous churches and many denominations have indicated a desire to participate in a designated Memorial Sunday honoring these consecrated firefighters for their ultimate sacrifices for their fellowmen. 
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate Sunday, October 7, 1979, as Firefighters' Memorial Sunday. 
Because of my grave concern for the firefighters of this country, I have urged the Federal government to undertake numerous programs aimed at reducing the dangers faced by this country's firefighters. We must do more to reverse the trend toward more injuries and deaths of firefighters. 
This year the 50-year dream of a National Fire Academy became a reality. At that site, firefighters from across the Nation can receive advanced training and education in health and safety. I invite the firefighters of the country to take full advantage of this long-awaited facility. 
I also call upon the members of the Joint Council of National Fire Service Organizations, members of the International Association of Fire Fighters, members of the International Association of Fire Chiefs, the National Fire Protection Association, all other organizations concerned with fire safety, and the United States Fire Administration to provide leadership and innovation to protect the lives of America's volunteer and professional firefighters. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day of August, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER