By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The Secretary of Energy has advised me that the continued reduction in world crude oil production has resulted in a national energy supply shortage constituting a severe energy supply interruption as defined in Section 3 (8) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6202 (8)). The Secretary based his conclusion on the fact that current and projected imports of crude oil and petroleum products, plus available stocks, are not adequate to meet normal demand and that shortages of essential fuels have begun to have a major adverse impact on the economy with the possibility of more severe impacts occurring in the future. Recent shortages of gasoline in some areas of the Nation and the current inadequate levels of heating oil stocks have underscored the seriousness of the situation and demonstrate that action must be taken now to conserve available supplies of petroleum. 
On the basis of the Secretary's report, and other information available to me, I hereby find and determine, in accordance with Sections 201(b) and 3(8) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6261 (b), 6202(8)), the existence of a national energy supply shortage constituting a severe energy supply interruption, which:
(A) is of significant scope and duration and of an emergency nature;
(B) may cause major adverse impact on national safety or the national economy; and
(C) has resulted from an interruption in the supply of imported petroleum products. 
I further find that implementation of the Emergency Building Temperature Restrictions, Energy Conservation Contingency Plan No. 2, is required by the severe energy supply interruption. This Plan was transmitted by me to the Congress on March 1, 1979, and approved by a resolution of each House (S. Res. 122, 125 Cong. Rec. S 5135 (May 2, 1979); H. Res. 209, 125 Cong. Rec. H 3018 May 10, 1979)), which resolutions have been transmitted to me by the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House. Those resolutions were received by me on May 4 and May 15, 1979, respectively. 
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, including Section 201(b) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6261(b) ), do hereby proclaim that: 
SECTION 1. A severe energy supply interruption, as defined in Section 3(8) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6202 (8)) currently exists with respect to the supply of imported crude oil and petroleum products. 
SEC. 2. This finding shall be immediately transmitted to the Congress. 
SEC. 3. The provisions of the Emergency Building Temperature Restrictions, Energy Conservation Contingency Plan No. 2 (44 FR 12911 of March 8, 1979), shall become effective as of July 16, 1979. 
SEC. 4. In accordance with the provisions of the Plan, the Secretary of Energy is hereby authorized to issue regulations for the purpose of implementing the Energy Conservation Contingency Plan No. 2 and to administer the program in all respects. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER