By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The Secretary of the Treasury in a memorandum dated November 12, 1979, and the Secretary of Energy in consultation with the Secretaries of State and Defense, have informed me that recent developments in Iran have exacerbated the threat to the national security posed by imports of petroleum and petroleum products. Those developments underscore the threat to our national security which results from our reliance on Iran as a source of crude oil. The Secretaries have recommended that I take steps immediately to eliminate the dependence of the United States on Iran as a source of crude oil. 
I agree with these recommendations and that the changes proposed are consistent with the purposes of Proclamation 3279, as amended. 
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, including Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, (19 U.S.C. 1862) do hereby proclaim that: 
SECTION 1. Section 1 of Proclamation 3279, as amended, is further amended by the addition of a new paragraph (e) to read as follows: 
Sec. 1 (e) . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Proclamation, no crude oil produced in Iran (except crude oil loaded aboard maritime vessels prior to November 13, 1979) or unfinished oil or finished products refined in possessions or free trade zones of the United States from such crude oil, may be entered into the customs territory of the United States. 
SEC. 2. Section 11 of Proclamation No. 3279, as amended, is further amended in paragraph (1) to read as follows: 
(1) The term "imports", when applied to crude oil other than that produced in Iran, includes both entry for consumption and withdrawal from warehouse for consumption, but excludes unfinished oil and finished products processed in the United States territories and foreign trade zones from crude oil produced in the United States. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 12th day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and seventy-nine and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourth. 
JIMMY CARTER