By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Thirty-four years after its founding "to save succeeding generations of mankind from the scourge of war", the United Nations remains mankind's last best hope for building a world community based on justice, tolerance for diversity and respect for the rule of law. 
The United Nations has no magic formula for solving the increasingly complex problems of our revolutionary age. Yet it remains the symbol, and the standard, of mankind's desire to turn away from ancient quarrels and live in a world in which all people can share in the fruits of prosperity and peace. 
More than ever, the international community is challenged by problems of global dimension which can be solved only through world-wide cooperation and dialogue. The 100 new nations which have joined the United Nations since its founding are a symbol of the increasingly complex and diverse world which the United Nations confronts today. 
Protecting international peace and security is still the United Nation's greatest contribution and responsibility, but that political stability is only the precondition for fulfilling the larger aspirations of mankind. For all its imperfections, the United Nations remains the principal forum for the pivotal dialogue among the nations of the world on constructing a more stable, equitable, and productive economic order. It plays a leading role in the global management and allocation of vital natural resources. It offers an increasingly important channel for providing development assistance to many nations in the world. It offers a forum, and often a timely and effective mechanism for protecting basic human rights. The leadership of the United Nations in responding to the present refugee crisis, and the recent Geneva Meeting on that problem, represents one of the proudest examples of that world body's ability to harness world cooperation in the cause of human dignity. 
The United States has historically been one of the United Nations' most active and dedicated supporters, and I have been proud to continue and expand on that support as President. Not a single day goes by when we in the United States do not call upon the United Nations, or one of its affiliates, to help deal with a problem of global dimensions. I join with many other Americans and citizens of all nations in expressing my sincere support for this unique world body on the thirtyfourth anniversary of its founding. 
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate Wednesday, October 24, 1979, as United Nations Day. I urge all Americans to use this day as an opportunity to better acquaint themselves with the activities and accomplishments of the United Nations. 
I have appointed O. Pendleton Thomas to serve as 1979 United States National Chairman for United Nations Day, and the United Nations Association of the U.S.A. to work with him in celebrating this very special day. And I invite all the American people, and people everywhere, to join me on this thirty-fourth anniversary of the United Nations, in strengthening our common resolve to increase its effectiveness in meeting the global challenges and aspirations that we all share. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and seventy-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America, the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER