By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Last year seventy-five hundred Americans lost their lives in fires in homes, hotels, and other structures. In addition, the combined annual cost of property destruction and fire protection amounted to twenty-one billion dollars. This tragic loss of life and property which our Nation experiences each year due to the ravages of fire diminishes our precious resources and must be minimized. 
Each year since 1920, we have observed Fire Prevention Week. My proclamation of last year stressed the value of smoke detectors and home escape plans. While smoke detector usage has increased substantially over last year, thirty-seven percent of the homes in the United States still do not have this lifesaving protection. Studies demonstrate, that, tragically, homes without smoke detectors suffer a disproportionate number of reported fires and deaths. Moreover, many smoke detectors are not properly maintained- 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do designate the week of October 3 through October 9, 1982, as Fire Prevention Week. 
I urge citizens, industry, and State and local government to continue their successful efforts to safeguard lives and property from the dangers of fire by installing and maintaining smoke detectors along with proper and adequate escape plans. 
I urge citizens, industry, and State and local government to take advantage of fast-response sprinklers to save lives and property in residences, hotels, motels, and nursing homes. The cost is small when compared with the human suffering and loss of property which can be prevented. 
I urge State and local governments to conduct anti-arson campaigns directed at reducing our Nation's fastest growing crime. 
I urge citizens to support and to practice fire safety at all times. 
I commend individual fire chiefs and firefighters as well as the following organizations for their work to reduce fire losses: the International Association of Fire Chiefs, the International Association of Fire Fighters, the National Volunteer Fire Council, the National Fire Protection Association, the Fire Marshals Association of North America, the Joint Council of Fire Service Organizations, the National Safety Council, and others. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 8th. day of Sept., in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightytwo, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventh.
RONALD REAGAN