By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, including the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.), and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, it is hereby ordered that Section i of Executive Order No. 11912, as amended, is further amended to read as follows: 
"Section 1. (a) The Administrator of General Services is designated and empowered to perform without approval, ratification, or other action by the President, the functions vested in the President by Section 510 of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act, as amended (89 Stat. 915, 15 U.S.C. 2010). The Administrator shall exercise that authority to ensure that passenger automobiles acquired by all Executive agencies in each fiscal year achieve a fleet average fuel economy standard that is not less than the average fuel economy standard for automobiles manufactured for the model year which includes January i of each fiscal year. 
"(b) The Administrator of General Services shall also promulgate rules which will ensure that each class of nonpassenger automobiles acquired by all Executive agencies in each fiscal year achieves a fleet average fuel economy that is not less than the average fuel economy standard for such class, established pursuant to Section 502(b) of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act, as amended (89 Stat. 903, 15 U.S.C. 2002(b)), for the model year which includes January 1 of such fiscal year. Such rules shall not apply to nonpassenger automobiles intended for use in combat-related missions for the Armed Forces or intended for use in law enforcement work or emergency rescue work. The Administrator may provide for granting exceptions for individual nonpassenger automobiles or categories of nonpassenger automobiles as he determines to be appropriate in terms of energy conservation, economy, efficiency, or service. 
"(c) In performing these functions, the Administrator of General Services shall consult with the Secretary of Transportation and the Secretary of Energy."
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
August 4, 1982. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:51 a.m., August 5, 1982]