By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Among the blessings of this wonderful land are our free institutions. Americans are guaranteed freedom of speech, religion, and the press and the right to assemble and petition for the redress of grievances. Our citizens cherish their liberty and their right to be protected against the unwarranted intrusion of government. Our freedoms have been hard-won and will be preserved. 
Other countries are not so fortunate. Time and time again, individuals, groups, and whole peoples have been subjected to tyrannies and deprivations. When thoughtful Americans witness the oppression, even terror, that is so prevalent in many other parts of the world, they cannot help but feel a deep and abiding appreciation for, and renewed loyalty to, our own Nation and its ideals. 
Americans prize their diversity but are united in a shared allegiance to our Nation's tradition of justice and liberty for all. We have fought for these traditions in the past, and we will not permit their erosion in the future. 
It is altogether fitting that we set aside a day for reflection on our stake in democracy and in its highest purpose—the advancement of the freedom and dignity of mankind. 
By joint resolution approved July 18, 1958 (72 Stat. 369, 36 U.S.C. 162), Congress has designated May 1 of every year as Loyalty Day in order to encourage all Americans to reflect upon our national institutions, our heritage of freedom, and what it means to be an American. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, call upon all Americans and patriotic, civic, and educational organizations to observe Saturday, May 1, 1982, as Loyalty Day, with appropriate ceremonies. 
I call upon all Government officials to display the flag of the United States on all Government buildings and grounds on that day. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 24th day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixth.
RONALD REAGAN