By the authority vested in me as President of the United States of America, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory commission to promote the development of a strong private sector on Federally recognized Indian reservations, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established a Presidential Commission on Indian Reservation Economies. 
(b) The Commission shall be composed of no more than nine members, who shall he appointed by the President from among the private sector, reservation tribal governments, economic academicians, and Federal employees. 
(c) The President shall designate a non-Indian representative and an Indian representative to serve as cochairmen of the Commission. 
Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Commission shall advise the President on what actions should be taken to develop a stronger private sector on Federally recognized Indian reservations, lessen tribal dependence on Federal monies and programs and reduce the Federal presence in Indian affairs. The underlying principles of this mission are the government-to-government relationship, the established Federal policy of self-determination and the Federal trust responsibility. 
(b) The Commission will focus exclusively on the following items, and not on new Federal financial assistance: 
(1) Defining the existing Federal legislative, regulatory, and procedural obstacles to the creation of positive economic environments on Indian reservations. 
(2) Identifying and recommending changes or other remedial actions necessary to remove these obstacles. 
(3) Defining the obstacles at the State, local and tribal government levels which impede both Indian and non-Indian private sector investments on reservations. 
(4) Identifying actions which these levels of government could take to rectify the identified problems. 
(5) Recommending ways for the private sector, both Indian and non-Indian, to participate in the development and growth of reservation economies, including capital formation. 
(c) The Commission should review studies undertaken in the last decade to obtain pertinent recommendations that are directly related to its mission. 
(d) The Commission shall, unless sooner extended, submit a final report to the President and to the Secretary of the Interior within six months after appointment of the last Commissioner, or by September 30, 1983, whichever comes earlier. 
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Commission with such information as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions. 
(b) Members of the Commission may receive compensation for their work on the Commission. While engaged in the work of the Commission members may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707). 
(c) The Secretary of the Interior shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide the Commission with such administrative services, funds, facilities, staff and other support services as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions. 
(d) The Commission will meet approximately 15 times at the call of the chairmen. All meetings of the Commission and all agenda must have prior approval of the chairmen. 
(e) In carrying out its responsibilities, the Commission is authorized to: 
(1) Conduct hearings, interviews, and reviews at field sites, or wherever deemed necessary to fulfill its duties. 
(2) Confer with Indian tribal government officials and members, private sector business officials and managers, and other parties dealing with matters pertaining to the Commission's mission. 
Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the responsibilities of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, except that of reporting annually to the Congress, which are applicable to the advisory commission established by this Order, shall be performed by the Secretary of the Interior, in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services.
(b) The Commission shall terminate 60 days after it transmits its final report to the President, or on December 31, 1983, whichever come earlier.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
January 14, 1983. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:41 a. m., January 17, 1983]