Establishing an Emergency Board To Investigate a Dispute Between The Long Island Rail Road and Certain Labor Organizations 
A dispute exists between The Long Island Rail Road and certain labor organizations, designated on the list attached hereto and made a part hereof, representing employees of The Long Island Rail Road. 
The dispute has not heretofore been adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended ("the Act"). 
The New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the parent body of The Long Island Rail Road, has requested that the President establish an emergency board pursuant to Section 9A of the Act. 
Section 9A(e) of the Act provides that the President, upon request of a party, shall appoint an emergency board to investigate and report on the dispute. 
Now, Therefore, by the authority vested in me by Section 9A of the Act, as amended (45 U.S.C. ยง 159a), it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment of Board. There is established, effective immediately, a board of three members to be appointed by the President to investigate this dispute. No member shall be pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of railroad employees or any carrier. 
Sec. 2. Report. Within 30 days after creation of the board the parties to the dispute shall submit to the board final offers for settlement of the dispute. Within 30 days after the submission of final offers the board shall submit a report to the President setting forth its selection of the most reasonable offer. 
Sec. 3. Maintaining Conditions. As provided by Section 9A(h) of the Act, as amended, from the time a request to establish a board is made until 60 days after the board makes its report, no change, except by agreement, shall be made by the parties in the conditions out of which the dispute arose. 
Sec. 4. Expiration. The Emergency Board shall terminate upon submission of the report provided for in Sec. 2 of this Order.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
April 4, 1983. 
Labor Organizations 
ARASA Division, Brotherhood of Railway and Airline Clerks
Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers Brotherhood of Railway Carmen of the United States and Canada
International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers
Police Benevolent Association
Railroad Yardmasters of America
Sheet Metal Workers International Association
United Transportation Union 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:52 a.m., April 5, 1983]