By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Chronic diseases of the lungs are responsible for large numbers of deaths and disabilities among Americans. More than 17 million people have chronic lung diseases, and an estimated 225,000 Americans will die this year from them. The cost to this Nation is nearly $30 billion in medical expenses and lost wages, and untold millions more in lost productivity. 
Emphysema and chronic bronchitis afflict ten million Americans. Asthma affects another seven million people, two million of whom are children. Before the end of this decade, lung cancer will have surpassed breast cancer as the leading cause of cancer deaths among American women. 
The American Lung Association (ALA), through its community lung associations, continues the tradition started in 1904 of leading the effort to control and prevent pulmonary diseases. The ALA is this Nation's first voluntary, nonprofit public health organization. Formed originally to combat tuberculosis, the ALA, together with its medical/scientific arm—the American Thoracic Society—now has widened its scope to include all forms of lung diseases and its causes, including smoking, air pollution, and occupational hazards. 
To help pioneer and develop health education and research programs aimed at better treatment and prevention of lung diseases, the ALA relies on the sale of Christmas Seals. The Association has used Christmas Seals since 1907 to raise funds through private contributions to continue its research programs. 
This year, 60 million homes will receive Christmas Seals. The funds raised through the sale of Christmas Seals have enabled the ALA to provide many millions of dollars for research programs on the prevention and control of lung diseases. Christmas Seals also have allowed the ALA to conduct vigorous public campaigns against air pollution and cigarette smoking. The use of Christmas Seals on holiday mail is a visible reminder that chronic lung diseases remain a serious public health problem, but one that can be in large part prevented through research and public education. 
To increase public awareness of chronic lung diseases and the benefits realized by the sales of Christmas Seals, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 324, has designated the month of November as "National Christmas Seal Month" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this month. 
Now, Therefore I. Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of November 1984 as National Christmas Seal Month, and I call upon all government agencies and the people of the United States to observe this month with appropriate activities and by supporting the Christmas Seal program. 
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.
RONALD REAGAN