By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, and in order to amend the responsibilities of the President's Commission on Executive Exchange and to continue its work of benefiting both the Government and the private sector by enabling the most outstanding executives to work in the other sector, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment of the Commission. (a) The President's Commission on Executive Exchange is hereby continued. 
(b) The Commission shall be composed of not more than thirty-six members who shall be appointed from time to time by the President from among leaders in the private sector and the Executive branch of the Government. The President shall seek, so far as he deems practicable or advisable, to appoint up to seventy-five percent of the Commission membership from the ranks of Chief Executive Officers, Chief Operating Officers, Chairmen, Senior Partners or other individuals of comparable rank and stature from the private sector. Executive branch members, to the extent the President deems practicable or advisable, may include Cabinet Secretaries, Agency Heads, and such other officials of comparable rank or position as deemed appropriate by the President. 
The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the Commission. The Chairman and members shall serve at the pleasure of the President. Members of the Commission shall serve two-year terms or until a successor is appointed. 
(c) Members of the Commission who are full-time officers or employees of the Federal government shall receive no additional compensation by reason of this Order, and members who are not such officers or employees shall serve without compensation, but each Commissioner shall be provided with travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law. 
Sec. 2. Functions of the Commission. (a) The Commission shall administer an Executive Exchange Program in which: (1) outstanding private sector executives, primarily those who have achieved senior level management positions, and also those exceptional managers who have unique qualifications and extremely high potential for policy-making positions, will be selected as Presidential Exchange Executives and assigned to positions in the Senior Executive Service or positions of comparable rank or stature, reporting, as appropriate, to Cabinet Officers, Ambassadors, Agency Heads, Under Secretaries, Assistant Secretaries or other high-ranking Government officials for not more than one year, with an extension of up to ninety days in extraordinary circumstances; and (2) career Federal Executives who are members of the Senior Executive Service, or equivalent level, will be selected as Presidential Exchange Executives and assigned for one year to positions in the private sector offering significant challenge, responsibility and regular and continuing contact with senior private sector officials. 
(b) The Commission shall administer an Executive International Embassy Assignments Program in which exceptionally qualified private sector executives, primarily those who have achieved senior level management positions, and also exceptional managers who have unique qualifications and extremely high potential for policy-making positions, may be selected as Presidential Exchange Executives and, as appropriate, assigned for one year, with an extension of up to ninety days, to the Senior Foreign Service or other key positions in United States Embassies reporting to Ambassadors or other high-ranking Government officials. 
(c) The Commission shall administer an education program which places the work experience of the Presidential Exchange Executives in the broader context of both Federal government and private sector operations and, to the extent desirable and appropriate, may include exposure to international economic and foreign affairs. 
(d) The Commission shall supervise and review the operation of the Program, and may recommend to the President ways to promote and improve the Program. 
(e) The Commission shall ensure that the Program operates in compliance with the merit principles set forth in Section 2301 of Title 5 of the United States Code. 
Sec. 3. Responsibilities of Executive Agencies. Each Executive agency shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Commission with such assistance as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions. 
Sec. 4. Administrative Provisions. (a) The Office of Personnel Management shall provide the Commission with administrative services, staff support and travel expenses, as authorized by law. The Office of Administration, Executive Office of the President, may provide services to the Commission on a reimbursable basis pursuant to interagency agreement, as may be authorized by the Economy Act of 1932, as amended, 31 U.S.C. 1535 et seq. 
(b) The Executive Director's responsibilities shall be to carry out the activities of the Commission. 
(c) Executive Order No. 12136 of May 15, 1979 is revoked.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
December 5, 1984. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:55 a.m., December 6, 1984]