By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
National High-Tech Month provides an opportunity for all Americans to learn how technological advances contribute to our economic growth and rising standard of living and to reaffirm our national commitment to maintain the leadership of the United States in high-technology development. Technology is crucial to our physical well-being, a strong national defense, and economic growth. It is transforming not just industry, but medicine, agriculture, education, communications—indeed, virtually every field of human endeavor. 
History has demonstrated that progress in technology is essential to maintaining competitiveness, creating new products, and improving productivity. Enhanced productivity lowers unit costs, thereby increasing profits and allowing industries to reduce prices and capture a larger share of the market. Technology-induced productivity gains help hold down inflation, make American products more competitive in world markets, and raise our standard of living. 
I am calling upon all Americans to open themselves to the opportunities presented by the incorporation of technology into their lives and livelihoods. First, government policies should not penalize but rather improve incentives for the entrepreneurial development of new technology so critical to maintaining industrial leadership. Second, American business should redouble its efforts to channel investment into promising research and development projects. Third, American labor and management must recognize and welcome the opportunities provided in a high-technological economy and actively cooperate in adapting to the changing work environment, availing themselves of the benefits to their working lives that will come with enhanced productivity and innovation. 
Finally, we must pay attention to the education of American youth—education that will give them the skills and insights they need to grow and develop in a high-technology future. School systems from the elementary level to graduate school must conscientiously seek opportunities to educate our young people about the benefits of technology and to encourage development of the basic knowledge our citizens will require if they are to function successfully in tomorrow's world. 
In recognition of the importance of high technology to our lives, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 128, has designated the month of October 1985 as "National High-Tech Month" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of October 1985 as National High-Tech Month, and I request all Federal, State, and local officials to cooperate in its observance. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this seventeenth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and tenth.
RONALD REAGAN