By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
We live in an age when rapidly changing science and technology are transforming our economy and our way of life. But this is nothing new for Americans, because we have always been inventors and explorers who looked to science as a way of achieving a better future. 
Today the pace of scientific discovery has accelerated, and its effects are being felt worldwide. No nation or group of nations has a monopoly on the world's scientific talent, so no nation can take for granted that it will remain in the forefront of technological change just because it has been in the past. America must continually strive to undertake basic research in science as well as to develop new technological applications of scientific ideas. 
In order to do this, it is particularly important that we provide our young people with good scientific education. Even those who do not pursue careers in science should understand the scientific method and appreciate the contributions science and technology make to our way of life. 
Americans are coming together to meet the challenges that the rapid advance of scientific knowledge creates for us. As we have so many times before in our history, we see these challenges as opportunities. Our businesses, universities, and State and local governments are working in partnership with the Federal government to meet our needs through research and education. As these cooperative relationships develop, we can look forward with confidence to an era of scientific discovery and technological innovation unimagined only a few years ago. 
In recognition of the importance of science, technology, and science education, and to draw public attention to the great works being accomplished in these fields, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 59, has designated the period from May 12 through May 18, 1985, as "National Science Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of May 12 through May 18, 1985, as National Science Week. I urge the people of the United States to observe this week and participate in the many activities planned by universities, businesses, State and local governments, and the Federal government during this period. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.
RONALD REAGAN