By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America and section 5941 of title 5 of the United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Section 205 of Executive Order No. 10000 of September 16, 1948, as amended, is further amended to provide as follows: 
"Sec. 205. Additional living cost compensation. 
"(a) The Office of Personnel Management shall from time to time, subject to applicable law, (1) designate places in non-foreign areas eligible to receive additional compensation by virtue of living costs that are substantially higher than in the Washington, D.C., area, (2) fix for each place so designated an additional rate or rates of compensation by reason of such higher living costs, and (3) prescribe by regulation such additional policies or procedures as may be necessary to administer such compensation. Additional compensation under this section is referred to as a 'non-foreign area cost-of-living allowance. 
"(b) In fixing the non-foreign area cost-of-living allowances, the Office of Personnel Management shall make appropriate deductions when quarters or subsistence, or commissary or other purchasing privileges are furnished as a result of Federal civilian employment at a cost substantially lower than the prevailing costs in the allowance area concerned." 
Sec. 2. (a) Section 201 of Executive Order No. 10000, as amended, is further amended by deleting "the word 'Territories' means Alaska, Hawaii, the" and inserting in its place "the term 'non-foreign areas' includes Alaska, Hawaii, the territories and". 
(b) Executive Order No. 10000, as amended, is further amended by deleting "Territorial" and "Territories" wherever they appear and inserting in their place "non-foreign area" and "non-foreign areas", respectively. 
Sec. 3. Executive Order No. 12070 of June 30, 1978, is hereby superseded. 
Sec. 4. This Order shall be effective upon publication in the Federal Register.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
April 17, 1985. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:26 a.m., April 18, 1985]