By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation 
Education is a lifelong process. Local support for education helps to promote programs for learners of all ages, backgrounds, and needs and encourages full use of school facilities. As each community draws upon its own resources, new opportunities are created, helping many individuals achieve their goals and aspirations. These are the opportunities that have always sustained the freedoms and responsibilities so important to all Americans. 
Public education is a community enterprise, and everyone in the community has a stake in the education of adults as well as children. Local citizen involvement is critical in deciding how the financial and educational resources of the community should be used. Many communities are making valuable efforts to promote the use of community resources in schools and colleges, citizen involvement in educational decisionmaking, the use of community resources to provide educational opportunities for learners of all ages and educational backgrounds, and interagency cooperation to assure effective use of limited resources. 
The Congress, by Public Law 99-405, has designated November 18, 1986, as "National Community Education Day" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of the day. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Tuesday, November 18, 1986, as National Community Education Day. I invite State and local officials, educators, parents, students, and all Americans to participate in activities that recognize and show appreciation for what community resources are doing for education. 
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eleventh.
RONALD REAGAN 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:10 p.m., November 18, 1986]