By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation 
The business of America begins with small business—millions of men and women, bold and imaginative self-starters, seizing opportunities and providing the jobs that help to ensure that our Nation will remain economically strong and free. 
The flexibility of small business people is exemplified by their willingness to adapt to change, their determination to test untapped markets for new products and services, and their ability to contribute to the competitive marketplace in such a way as to improve efficiency, thus benefitting the consumer and spurring economic growth. Nothing characterizes the American economy better than our 14 million small businesses. They should be a source of pride for all Americans. 
It is especially gratifying that in recent years greater numbers of young Americans are preparing for careers in independent business. Their innovative entrepreneurial spirit has brought a new excitement to the campus and to the marketplace. All Americans can take hope from their optimism, their creativity, and their impressive achievements. 
This year, thousands of business owners will express their views at State preparatory sessions for the National White House Conference on Small Business—an example of free enterprise at its best. The recommendations prepared by the delegates to the National White House Conference in August will help us in formulating a small business agenda designed to make sure that our economy continues to grow and to prosper. All Americans benefit when small business is the force behind a vigorous and expanding economy. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of May 18 through May 24, 1986, as Small Business Week and ask that all Americans join with me in saluting our small business men and women by observing that week with appropriate activities. 
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this seventh day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and tenth.
RONALD REAGAN 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:39 p.m., February 7, 1986]