Inter-American Investment Corporation, Commission for the Study of Alternatives to the Panama Canal, and Pacific Salmon Commission 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, including Section 1 of the International Organizations Immunities Act (22 U.S.C. 288), Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1965, and the Inter-American Investment Corporation Act (22 U.S.C. 283aa-283ii), and having found that the United States participates in the Commission for the Study of Alternatives to the Panama Canal pursuant to the Panama Canal Treaty of 1977 and the Panama Canal Act (22 U.S.C. 3619) and participates in the Pacific Salmon Commission pursuant to the Pacific Salmon Treaty and the Pacific Salmon Treaty Act (16 U.S.C. 3631 et seq.), it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. The Inter-American Investment Corporation, in which the United States participates pursuant to the Inter-American Investment Corporation Act and the Agreement Establishing the Inter-American Investment Corporation, is hereby designated as a public international organization entitled to enjoy the privileges, exemptions, and immunities conferred by the International Organizations Immunities Act. This designation is not intended to abridge in any respect the privileges and immunities that such organization has acquired or may acquire by treaty or congressional action. This designation shall not affect in any way the applicability of Sections 3 and 9 of Article VII of the Agreement. 
Sec. 2. The functions vested in the President by Section 210 of the Inter-American Investment Corporation Act are hereby delegated to the Secretary of the Treasury. 
Sec. 3. The Commission for the Study of Alternatives to the Panama Canal is hereby designated as a public international organization entitled to enjoy the privileges, exemptions, and immunities conferred by the International Organizations Immunities Act. This designation is not intended to abridge in any respect the privileges, exemptions, or immunities that such organization may have acquired or may acquire by international agreements or by congressional action. 
Sec. 4. The Pacific Salmon Commission is hereby designated as a public international organization entitled to the privileges, exemptions, and immunities conferred by the International Organizations Immunities Act. This designation is not intended to abridge in any respect the privileges, exemptions, or immunities that such organization may have acquired or may acquire by international agreements or by congressional action. 
Sec. 5. Executive Order No. 11269, as amended, is further amended by deleting "and African Development Bank" and adding ", African Development Bank, and Inter-American Investment Corporation," in Sections 2(c), 3(d), and 7, respectively.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
October 2, 1986. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:35 p.m., October 2, 1986]