By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
1. On March 31, 1986, I announced my decision to take action in response to restrictions imposed by the European Economic Community (EEC) affecting imports of United States grain and oilseeds into Spain and Portugal, following the expansion of the EEC to include those two countries. I have determined, pursuant to Section 301(a) of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (the Act) (19 U.S.C. 2411(a)), that these restrictions deny benefits to the United States arising under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) (61 Stat. (pts. 5 and 6)), are unreasonable, and constitute a burden and restriction on United States commerce. 
2. Section 301(a) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 2411(a)) authorizes the President to take all appropriate and feasible action to obtain the elimination of an act, policy, or practice of a foreign government or instrumentality that 1) is inconsistent with the provisions of, or otherwise denies benefits to the United States under, any trade agreement; or 2) is unjustifiable, unreasonable, or discriminatory and burdens or restricts United States commerce. Section 301(b) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 2411(b)) also authorizes the President to suspend, withdraw, or prevent the application of benefits of trade agreement concessions with respect to, and to impose duties or other import restrictions on the products of, such foreign government or instrumentality. Pursuant to Section 301(a) of the Act, any such actions can be taken on a discriminatory basis solely against the foreign government or instrumentality involved. Section 301(d)(1) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 2411(d)(1)) authorizes the President to take action on his own motion. 
3. In response to the EEC imposition of illegal restrictions on Portuguese imports of grain, oilseeds, and oilseed products, I have decided that expeditious action is required, and, pursuant to Section 301(a), (b), and (d)(1) of the Act, to impose quantitative restrictions on the articles provided for in Annex I to this proclamation that are the product of the EEC. 
4. In response to the withdrawal of tariff concessions and the application of the EEC variable levy on Spanish imports of corn and sorghum, I have further decided, pursuant to Section 301(a), (b), and (d)(1) of the Act, to take steps to suspend temporarily the tariff concessions made by the United States under the GATT on articles described in Annex II to this proclamation, but to make no immediate change in the rates of duty for these articles set forth in Rate of Duty Column I of the Tariff Schedules of the United States (TSUS). If by July 1, 1986, the EEC provides adequate compensation for the imposition of variable levies on imports of corn and sorghum into Spain, or if it is determined that other circumstances so warrant, I am authorizing the United States Trade Representative (USTR) to terminate any of these suspensions as appropriate. If such compensation is not provided, I will proclaim increased duties on these articles as appropriate. Having due regard for the international obligations of the United States, particularly paragraph 3 of Article XXVIII of the GATT requiring any suspension of trade agreement concessions to be made on a most-favored-nation basis, any duty increase on these articles will be made on a most-favored-nation basis. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, acting under the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes of the United States, including but not limited to Section 301(a), (b), and (d)(1) and Section 604 of the Act (19 U.S.C. 2483), do proclaim that: 
1. Subpart B of part 2 of the Appendix to the Tariff Schedules of the United States is modified as provided in Annex I to this proclamation. These changes shall be effective with respect to articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after May 19, 1986. 
2. The tariff concessions under the GATT on articles listed in Annex II to this proclamation are suspended, effective on the thirty-first day following notification to the Contracting Parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, and Part I of Schedule XX of the GATT is modified to conform to this action. The rates of duty for these articles set forth in the Rate of Duty Column I of the TSUS are not affected by this action and shall remain as previously proclaimed until such time as they are expressly modified. 
3. The USTR is hereby authorized to suspend, modify, or terminate the quantitative restrictions on any of the articles covered by Annex I to this proclamation, and to terminate the suspension of the tariff concessions under the GATT on any of the articles covered by Annex II upon the publication in the Federal Register of his determination that such suspension, modification, or termination is justified by actions taken by the EEC with respect to this matter or is otherwise appropriate, taking into account the interests of the United States. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and tenth.
RONALD REAGAN