By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation 
Women have contributed mightily to the growth of the United States and the success of the American experiment with democracy. Today, women of every race and ethnic background, whether single or married, with children or other dependents, continue to play leading roles in the enrichment of our Nation. They are contributing substantially to the growth of the economy and the development of our educational, political, commercial, judicial, and social systems. And they continue to sustain those family values so essential to the health of the Nation. 
Women are making significant achievements in government and the private sector that will enhance employment opportunities for all Americans. As obstacles to full equality of opportunity are overcome, more and more women are successfully occupying an ever greater variety of demanding and rewarding careers. At the same time, women make an incomparable contribution as mothers and homemakers, whose vision, love, and example will shape the destiny of our country in the years to come. 
It is appropriate that all Americans recognize the outstanding achievements of women and celebrate their unique and immense contributions to our Nation and its well-being. 
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 499, has designated the week beginning March 2, 1986, as "Women's History Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning March 2, 1986, as Women's History Week, and I call upon the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this 4th day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and tenth.
RONALD REAGAN 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:56 a.m., March 5, 1986]