By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The maltreatment of older Americans-physical and emotional abuse, neglect, financial victimization, and other denials of human dignity—is a tragedy that affects citizens of every regional, economic, religious, and racial grouping. Victims of this abuse are often among the most helpless and vulnerable members of society, and many cases go unreported to the proper authorities. All of us should realize our responsibility to provide for the safety and well-being of older Americans. 
This responsibility means, of course, that each of us must protect the older people we know. But it also means that we must safeguard the lives and the dignity of every elderly person in our communities. That can be accomplished when concerned and determined citizens, families, church and civic groups, and government officials formulate much-needed programs for prevention, intervention, and public awareness. It can also be achieved through devoting ourselves to the promotion of strong family life and personal morality, and by reminding ourselves that our God-given, unalienable rights to "Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness" come with no age limits whatever. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 57, has designated the period from May $ through May 10, 1987, as "National Older Americans Abuse Prevention Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the period from May 3 through May 10, 1987, as National Older Americans Abuse Prevention Week. I call upon all government agencies and the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 5th day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightyseven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eleventh.
RONALD REAGAN