By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
1. On April 17, 1987, I determined pursuant to section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended ("the Act") (19 U.S.C. 2411), that the Government of Japan has not implemented or enforced major provisions of the Arrangement concerning Trade in Semiconductor Products, signed on September 2, 1986, and that this is inconsistent with the provisions of, or otherwise denies benefits to the United States under, a trade agreement; and is unjustifiable and unreasonable and constitutes a burden or restriction on United States commerce. Specifically, the Government of Japan has not met its commitments to increase market access opportunities in Japan for foreign-based semiconductor producers or to prevent "dumping" through monitoring of costs and export prices of exports from Japan of semiconductor products. I have further determined, pursuant to section 301(b) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 2411(b)), that the appropriate and feasible action in response to such failure is to impose increased duties on certain imported articles that are the products of Japan. 
2. Section 301(a) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 2411(a)) authorizes the President to take all appropriate and feasible action within his power to obtain the elimination of an act, policy, or practice of a foreign government or instrumentality that (1) is inconsistent with the provisions of, or otherwise denies benefits to the United States under, a trade agreement; or (2) is unjustifiable, unreasonable, or discriminatory and burdens or restricts United States commerce. Section 301(b) of the Act authorizes the President to suspend, withdraw, or prevent the application of benefits of trade agreement concessions with respect to, and to impose duties or other import restrictions on the products of, such foreign government or instrumentality for such time as he determines appropriate. Pursuant to section 301(a) of the Act, such actions can be taken on a nondiscriminatory basis or solely against the products of the foreign government or instrumentality involved. Section 301(d)(1) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 2411(d)(1)) authorizes the President to take action on his own motion. 
3. I have decided, pursuant to section 301(a), (b), and (d)(1) of the Act, to increase U.S. import duties on the articles provided for in the Annex to this Proclamation that are the products of Japan. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, acting under the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes of the United States, including but not limited to sections 301(a), (b), and (d)(1) and section 604 of the Act (19 U.S.C. 2483), do proclaim that: 
1. Subpart B of part 2 of the Appendix to the Tariff Schedules of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202) is modified as set forth in the Annex to this Proclamation. 
2. The United States Trade Representative is authorized to suspend, modify, or terminate the increased duties imposed by this Proclamation upon publication in the Federal Register of his determination that such action is in the interest of the United States. 
3. This Proclamation shall be effective with respect to articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after April 17, 1987, except that it shall not apply with respect to articles that were admitted into a U.S. foreign trade zone on or before March 31, 1987. 
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this seventeenth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eleventh.
RONALD REAGAN