By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
All Americans congratulate Dennis Conner and the crew of Stars and Stripes for their splendid victory in the America's Cup. 
The Stars and Stripes team, representing the San Diego Yacht Club, traveled to the west coast of Australia to compete with the best yachts and best yachtsmen in the world. In a lengthy series of exhausting and exciting races, it successfully defeated eleven challengers for the right to face New Zealand in the finals of the challenger's division. Although the Kiwi had compiled a most impressive record in earlier races, Stars and Stripes defeated the New Zealand boat 4 to 1 to earn the right to sail for the Cup against the Australian defender. 
In the final series, Stars and Stripes defeated Kookaburra III 4 to 0 to capture the America's Cup and bring the trophy back to the United States. Throughout the competition, the Australian team and the Australian people demonstrated to the world their sportsmanship and their unsurpassed hospitality. 
The skill and determination of the Stars and Stripes team captured the imagination of the American people. They demonstrated the traits that have long characterized this country at its best—optimism, dedication, teamwork, and an eagerness to master the most advanced technology and put it to good use. 
In honor of the Stars and Stripes' victory in the America's Cup, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 131, has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation expressing to Dennis Conner and the crew the thanks and admiration of our Nation. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim to Dennis Conner and the crew of Stars and Stripes the heartfelt congratulations and appreciation of our Nation for a job well done and for filling our sails with confidence and pride. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eleventh.
RONALD REAGAN