By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including sections 872, 873, 1111, 1112, 1113, 1114, 1202, and 1203 of title 21 of the United States Code, and in order to coordinate the performance of all drug abuse policy functions of the Federal government, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is hereby established the National Drug Policy Board ("the Board"). 
(b) The Board shall be composed of the following members: 
(1) the Attorney General, who shall serve as Chairman; 
(2) the Secretary of Health and Human Services, who shall serve as Vice Chairman;
(3) the Secretary of State;
(4) the Secretary of the Treasury;
(5) the Secretary of Defense;
(6) the Secretary of the Interior;
(7) the Secretary of Agriculture;
(8) the Secretary of Labor; (9) the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development;
(10) the Secretary of Transportation;
(11) the Secretary of Energy;
(12) the Secretary of Education; 
(13) the Director of the Office of Management and Budget; 
(14) the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
(15) the Director of Central Intelligence; 
(16) the Chief of Staff to the Vice President; 
(17) the Director of the White House Drug Abuse Policy Office; and 
(18) such other members as the President may, from time to time, designate. 
Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Board shall facilitate the development and coordination of national drug policy and shall coordinate activities of Executive departments and agencies to reduce the supply and use of illegal drugs, including international activities, enforcement, prevention and education, treatment and rehabilitation, and research relating to illegal drugs. 
(b) In furtherance of its responsibilities, the Board shall: 
(1) review, evaluate and develop United States Government policy, strategy and resources with respect to illegal drug law enforcement, prevention and education, treatment and rehabilitation, and research efforts, including budgetary priorities and national plans and strategies; 
(2) facilitate coordination of efforts of all Executive departments and agencies to halt national and international trafficking of illegal drugs and to reduce drug abuse; 
(3) coordinate the collection and evaluation of information necessary to implement United States policy with respect to illegal drug law enforcement and to the reduction of drug abuse; and 
(4) provide policy guidance to the agencies and facilitate resolution of differences in this area concerning interagency activities and other matters affecting two or more agencies. 
(c) In order to help coordinate the activities of Executive departments and agencies with responsibility for drug law enforcement and drug abuse reduction, and to supervise implementation of the determinations of the Board, the Chairman shall: 
(1) advise the Board in matters concerning its responsibilities; 
(2) make recommendations to the Board for the coordination of drug enforcement and drug abuse reduction activities; 
(3) correlate and evaluate intelligence and other information to support the activities of the Board; 
(4) act as primary advisor to the President and the Congress on national and international programs and policies and the implementation of those policies; and 
(5) perform such other duties as the President may direct. 
(d) The Board shall carry out all duties and responsibilities of the National Drug Enforcement Policy Board, as set forth in Chapter XIII (The National Narcotics Act) of Title II of Public Law 98-473. 
(e) Nothing in this Order shall be deemed to affect the authorities or responsibilities of the Office of Management and Budget, or any Office or official thereof. 
Sec. 3. Coordinating Groups. The Board shall establish a Drug Enforcement Coordinating Group and a Drug Abuse Prevention and Health Coordinating Group. The membership and chairman of each Coordinating Group shall be designated by the Chairman of the Board. 
Sec. 4. Conforming Amendments. (a) Section I of Executive Order No. 12368 is amended to provide as follows: 
"The Office of Policy Development has been assigned to assist the President and the National Drug Policy Board in the performance of the. drug policy functions contained in Section 201 of Title II of the Drug Abuse Prevention, Treatment, and Rehabilitation Act, as amended (21 U.S.C. 1111). Within the Office of Policy Development, the Director of the Drug Abuse Policy Office shall be primarily responsible for assisting the President and the Board in the performance of those functions." 
(b) Section 2 of Executive Order No. 12368 is amended by deleting "Director of the Drug Abuse Policy Office" and inserting in lieu thereof "National Drug Policy Board" and by deleting "he" and inserting in lieu thereof "the National Drug Policy Board."
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
March 26, 1987. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:31 a.m., March 27, 1987]