By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, and in order to coordinate and enhance governmental efforts to promote integrity and efficiency and to detect and prevent fraud and abuse in Federal programs, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment of the President's Council on Integrity and Efficiency. (a) There is established as an interagency committee the President's Council on Integrity and Efficiency. 
(b) The Council shall be composed of the following members: 
(1) The Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget, who shall be Chairperson of the Council;
(2) The Associate Attorney General; 
(3) The Deputy Director of the Office of Personnel Management; 
(4) The Executive Assistant Director-Investigations of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; 
(5) The Director of the Office of Government Ethics; 
(6) The Special Counsel of the Merit Systems Protection Board; 
(7) A designee of the Secretary of the Treasury; and 
(8) All civilian Inspectors General, now or hereafter created by statute. 
(c) The Chairperson may, from time to time, invite other officials to participate in meetings of the Council. 
Sec. 2. Functions of the Council. (a) The Council shall continually identify, review, and discuss areas of government-wide weakness and vulnerability to fraud, waste, and abuse and develop plans for coordinated government-wide activities that attack fraud and waste and promote economy and efficiency in government programs and operations. These will include interagency audit and investigation programs and projects to deal efficiently and effectively with those problems concerning fraud and waste that exceed the capability or jurisdiction of an individual agency. The Council will recognize the preeminent role of the Department of Justice in matters involving law enforcement and litigation. 
(b) The Council shall develop policies that will aid in establishment of a corps of welltrained and highly skilled Office of Inspector General staff members. 
(c) The Council members should, to the extent of their ability and authority, pay careful attention to professional standards developed by the Council and participate in Council plans, programs, and projects. 
(d) The creation and operation of the Council shall neither interfere with existing authority and responsibilities in the departments and agencies, nor augment or diminish the statutory authority or responsibilities of its members. 
Sec. 3. Responsibilities of the Chairperson. (a) The Chairperson may appoint a Vice Chairperson from the Council members to assist in carrying out the functions of the Council. 
(b) The Chairperson shall, in consultation with the members of the Council, establish the agenda for Council activities. 
(c) The Chairperson shall, on behalf of the Council, report to the President on the activities of the Council. The Chairperson shall advise the Council with respect to the reaction of the President on the Council's activities. 
(d) The Chairperson shall provide agency heads with summary reports of the activities of the Council. 
(e) The Chairperson shall establish, in consultation with the members of the Council, such committees of the Council as deemed necessary or appropriate for the efficient conduct of Council functions. Committees of the Council may act for the Council in their areas of designated responsibility. 
(f) The Chairperson shall be supported by the Associate Director for Management and Chief Financial Officer of the Office of Management and Budget who shall advise and assist the Chairperson in the execution of the entire range of responsibilities set forth above. 
Sec. 4. Coordinating Conference. (a) There is established as an interagency committee the Coordinating Conference of the President's Council on Integrity and Efficiency. 
(b) The Conference shall be composed of the Chairperson of the Council and one representative of each Executive agency, not represented on the Council, determined by the Office of Management and Budget to possess audit and investigative resources. The head of each such agency shall designate as the agency's representative the official who is responsible for coordinating the agency's efforts to eliminate fraud and waste in the agency's programs and operations. 
(c) The Chairperson shall convene meetings of the Conference at least quarterly. The Chairperson shall provide for the dissemination to the Conference of appropriate information on the activities of the Council, in order to enable the Conference members, to the extent of their own ability and authority to do so, to implement the coordinated plans, standards, policies, programs, and projects developed by the Council. 
Sec. 5. Administrative Provisions. (a) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall provide the Council and the Conference with such administrative support as may be necessary for the performance of the functions of the Council and the Conference. 
(b) the head of each agency represented on the Council or the Conference shall provide its representative with such administrative support as may be necessary, in accordance with law, to enable the agency representative to carry out his responsibilities. 
Sec. 6. Revocation. Executive Order 12301 of March 26, 1981, entitled "Integrity and Efficiency in Federal Programs," is revoked.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
January 27, 1988. 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:44 a.m., January 29, 1988]