By virtue of the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, and in the pursuance of assuring and coordinating a broader range of opportunities for research in microgravity conditions, I hereby order as follows: 
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is hereby established the National Microgravity Research Board (hereinafter, "the Board"). 
(b) The Board shall be composed of the following members, or their designees: 
(1) the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, who shall serve as Chairman;
(2) the Secretary of State;
(3) the Secretary of Defense; 
(4) the Secretary of Commerce; 
(5) the Secretary of Health and Human Services;
(6) the Secretary of Transportation;
(7) the Secretary of Energy; 
(8) the Director of the National Science Foundation; and 
(9) the Secretary or Director of other agencies, and officials of the Executive Office of the President, as the President may from time to time designate. 
(c) The Board shall report to the President through the Economic Policy Council as necessary. 
Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Board will consult with academia and private industry and other Federal agencies as appropriate in carrying out its functions. 
(b) In furtherance of its responsibilities, the Board shall: 
(1) stimulate research in microgravity environments and the application thereof to commercial uses; 
(2) advise Federal agencies on microgravity research priorities and opportunities; 
(3) develop policy recommendations relating to the conduct and nature of microgravity research, including types of research; government, industry, and academic cooperation; and increased access to space, including a potential launch voucher program for microgravity research purposes; and 
(4) provide advice on coordinating the microgravity programs of Federal agencies by: 
(i) reviewing agency plans for microgravity research and recommending priorities for the use of federally owned or leased space on microgravity facilities; 
(ii) ensuring that agencies establish merit review processes for evaluating microgravity research proposals; 
(iii) promoting transfer of federally funded microgravity research in furtherance of Executive Order No. 12591; and 
(iv) providing oversight of Federal agency participation in international microgravity research programs. 
(c) The Board shall meet as requested by the President, the Chairman, or the membership. 
Sec. 3. Board Termination Date. Unless extended by the President, the Board shall terminate 5 years after the date of this Order.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
December 16, 1988. 
[Filed with the Of Office of the Federal Register, 10:56 a.m., December 19, 1988]