By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
On Columbus Day, we pause as a Nation to honor the skilled and courageous navigator who discovered the Americas and, in so doing, brought to our ancestors the promise of the New World. In honoring Christopher Columbus, we also pay tribute to the generations of brave and bold Americans who, like him, have overcome great odds in order to chart the unknown. 
For nearly half a millennium, Americans have followed the example of this great explorer, challenging the frontiers of knowledge. Throughout our Nation's history, the spirit of discovery has been demonstrated by scholar and student, expert and novice, alike. While the efforts of men such as Lewis and Clark, Thomas Edison, Eli Whitney, and Alexander Graham Bell are well known, we should also remember the thousands of pioneers who quietly tamed the American wilderness. With courage, ingenuity, hard work, and sacrifice, these men and women helped to build a Nation. 
Generations of American entrepreneurs and business people have likewise accepted great risks in order to pursue their dreams. Their vision and initiative, allowed to flourish in this land of liberty, have helped the United States grow strong and prosperous. 
From test pilots and astronauts to scientists and researchers in virtually every field of endeavor, Americans have continued to explore not only the wonders of our planet, but also the great mysteries of space. Like Christopher Columbus, all of these Americans have faced the unknown, not with a reckless sense of adventure, but with a great sense of purpose and opportunity. 
Just a few years from now, in 1992, the United States will commemorate the 500th anniversary of the arrival of Columbus on these shores and proudly participate in events honoring this great explorer. A number of educational and commemorative events and programs are also being planned by the members of the Christopher Columbus Quincentenary Jubilee Commission, which was established by the Congress in 1984. 
Americans of Italian and Spanish descent will have special reason to join in this quincentenary celebration. As we reflect on the achievements of this famous son of Genoa, and the generous support he received from Spanish monarchs Ferdinand V and Isabella I, we are also reminded of the many contributions that men and women of Italian and Spanish descent have made and continue to make to our Nation. 
In tribute to Christopher Columbus, the Congress of the United States, by joint resolution of April 30, 1934 (48 Stat. 657), as modified by the Act of June 28, 1968 (82 Stat. 250), has requested the President to proclaim the second Monday in October of each year as "Columbus Day." 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 9, 1989, as Columbus Day. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities. I also direct that the flag of the United States be displayed on all public buildings on the appointed day in honor of Christopher Columbus. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this sixth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH