Section 1. 
Establishment. 
(a) There is established the President's Commission on Federal Ethics Law Reform. The Commission shall be composed of not more than eight members appointed by the President. These members shall be distinguished individuals with broad experience in ethics and public service. 
(b) The President shall designate a Chairman and Vice Chairman from among the members of the Commission. 
Sec. 2. 
Functions. 
(a) The Commission shall review Federal ethics laws, Executive orders, and policies and shall make recommendations to the President for legislative, administrative, and other reforms needed to ensure full public confidence in the integrity of all Federal public officials and employees. 
(b) The Commission shall report to the President by March 9, 1989, and shall provide a copy of its report to the Attorney General. 
Sec. 3. 
Administration. 
(a) The heads of Executive agencies and the Director of the Office of Government Ethics, to the extent permitted by law, shall provide the Commission such information, advice, and assistance as it may require for purposes of carying out its functions. 
(b) Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation for their work on the Commission. However, while engaged in the work of the Commission, members may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (including -5707), to the extent funds are available therefor. 
(c) The Attorney General, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations, shall provide the Commission with such administrative services, funds, facilities, staff, and other support services as may be necessary for the performance of its functions. 
Sec. 4. 
Counsel to the President. 
Following the submission of the Commission's report, the Counsel to the President shall provide the President with periodic reports regarding the implementation of reforms to Federal ethics laws, Executive orders, and policies. 
Sec. 5. 
General. 
(a) Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, except that of reporting to the Congress, which are applicable to the Commission, shall be performed by the Attorney General, in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
(b) The Commission shall terminate 30 days after its report, unless sooner extended. 
George Bush
The White House,
January 25, 1989.