By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
On July 19, 1989, our Nation was horrified by the tragic crash of a commercial airliner in Sioux City, Iowa. That catastrop the resulted in the deaths of 112 people. Our Nation mourns the loss of these individuals and grieves for their family and friends. The extent of this tragedy might have been much greater were it not for the heroic efforts of citizens in the Sioux City, Iowa, tri-State area. Residents of Iowa, Nebraska, and South Dakota responded swiftly to the disaster, dispatching rescue teams to the crash site and voluntarily offering shelter and solace to the injured and their families. 
Today, we commend the professionalism of the emergency medical personnel who rushed to the scene or worked tirelessly at nearby hospitals to treat injured passengers. The State and local rescue units and municipal firefighters who extinguished the blaze and extricated victims following the crash demonstrated remarkable speed, skill, and preparedness. We also salute the area residents who volunteered to donate blood or contributed food, blankets, and clothing after the crash; as well as the local college officials who opened their dormitories to the survivors, the families of survivors, rescue teams, and investigators. Their compassion and generosity merit the respect and gratitude of all Americans. 
In recognition of the outstanding efforts of these citizens, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 379, has commended their heroism and spirit of volunteerism and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation making such a commendation. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby commend the citizens of the Sioux City, Iowa, tri-State area for their extraordinary efforts in response to the tragic aircraft accident of July 19, 1989. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH