By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
An estimated 20 million Americans suffer from chronic digestive diseases, and more Americans are hospitalized for these diseases than for any other type of illness. The total social and economic impact of digestive diseases is thus enormous, affecting half of all Americans at some time during their lieves and costing the Nation nearly $50 billion each year. In addition to the immeasurable pain, discomfort, and personal distress they inflict upon their victims, digestive diseases rank third among illnesses in total cost in the United States. These diseases are responsible for almost 15 percent of all admissions to general hospitals and for 25 percent of all surgical procedures. 
Medical science has made important advances in thefield of digestive diseases research in recent years. Recognizing the widespread impact of digestive diseases and the dire need for research in this filed, may governmental, health care, scientific, and voluntary organizations have committed themselves to increasing public awareness and understanding of gastrointestinal diseases. 
In recognition of their important efforts to combat digestive diseases, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 170, has designated the month of May 1989 as "National Digestive Disease Awareness Month" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of May 1989 as National Digestive Disease Awareness Month. I urge all government agencies and the people of the United States, as well as educational, philanthropic, scientific, medical, and health care organizations and professionals, to participate in appropriate ceremonies to encourage further research into the causes and cures of all types of digestive diseases. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second day of May, in the year our Lord nineteen hundred and eight-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH