By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
At medical facilities and research institutions across the country, dedicated scientists are piecing together the puzzle of Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease is a living nightmare for the millions of older Americans who suffer from it. The disease robs its victims of their memory and judgment, their health, their independence, and, eventually, their lives. 
Research has taught us many things about Alzheimer's disease that we did not know just one decade ago. More physicians now recognize the illness, and they know how to treat some of the problems it causes. Unfortunately, however, physicians and scientists do not yet know how to cure the disease or stop it from progressing. We do know that continued research is vital. 
At the forefront of scientific research on Alzheimer's disease is the Federal Government's National Institute on Aging. The National Institute on Aging, along with other government agencies and private voluntary organizations such as the Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association, is working to advance our knowledge about this tragic disease. 
Scientific research has yielded a number of promising leads, and it holds the ultimate hope for the victims of Alzheimer's disease and their families. Nevertheless, until a cure is found, there is much that can be done to improve care and alleviate the emotional stress this disease imposes on families. The knowledge that has been acquired about effective treatment programs and care strategies needs to be shared with both professional and family caregivers. Continued efforts must be made to coordinate the many local, State, and Federal programs involving Alzheimer's disease and to get needed information into the hands of health and social service professionals who serve Alzheimer patients and their families. Only through a concerted effort can we ensure that the victims of this disease receive the highest quality care. 
To enhance public awareness of Alzheimer's disease, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 16, has designated the months of November 1989 and 1990 as "National Alzheimer's Disease Month" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of these months. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the months of November 1989 and 1990 as National Alzheimer's Disease Month and call upon the people of the United States to observe these months with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-seventh day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH