By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, including Chapter 71 of title 5 of the United States Code, and having determined under section 7103(b)(1) of said Chapter, that certain subdivisions of the National Preparedness Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency have as a primary function intelligence, counterintelligence, investigative, or national security work, and having determined that the provisions of chapter 71 of title 5 of the United States Code cannot be applied to certain subdivisions of the National Preparedness Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, in a manner consistent with national security requirements and considerations, it is hereby ordered that Executive Order No. 12171, as amended, is further amended by adding to Section 1-2 "Exclusions" the following new subsection 1-214: 
"1-214. Subdivisions of the National Preparedness Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. 
"(a) Office of Associate Director. 
"(b) Office of Analysis and Support. 
"(c) Office of Mobilization Preparedness. 
"(d) The following offices of the Office of Systems Engineering. $"(1) Office of the Assistant Associate Director. 
"(2) NEMS-DCWS Program Office. 
"(3) Systems Design Division. 
"(4) Telecommunications Systems Development Division. 
"(5) Systems Support Division. 
"(e) The following offices of the Office of Operations. 
"(1) Office of the Assistant Associate Director. 
"(2) Planning Division. 
"(3) The following branches of the Readiness Division. 
"(A) Exercise Branch. 
"(B) Operations Branch. 
"(C) National Warning Center. 
"(D) Alternate National Warning Center. 
"(4) Mobile Emergency Response Support Operations Divisions. 
"(5) Federal Agency Support and Coordination Division. 
"(f) The following offices in the Office of Information Resource Management. 
"(1) Office of the Assistant Associate Director. 
"(2) Information Systems Policy, Planning and Evaluation Policy and Planning Branch. 
"(3) Information Systems Application Branch. 
"(4) EICC Support Center." 
George Bush
The White House,
July 6, 1989.