By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Our Nation's laws and traditions are rooted in a profound respect for the dignity and worth of every human person. It is this deep regard for the individual that has established the United States as a land of liberty and opportunity for all. Like generations of Americans before us, we have an obligation to ensure that the United States remains faithful to this promise for every individual -- including those with disabilities. 
Ensuring that business and employment opportunities remain open for all members of our society is not only a moral imperative; it is also vital to our Nation's economic growth. As the global economy continues to expand, U.S. goods and services will face ever greater competition in both foreign and domestic markets. Americans with disabilities can help to meet that challenge -- but only if they have opportunities to bring their energy, creativity, and talent to the Nation's work force. 
Many advances have been made in fostering the full participation by disabled persons in American society. Our Nation's educational system and training and rehabilitation programs have enabled millions of people with disabilities to become skilled, productive workers. The ongoing removal of architectural and other barriers in housing, transportation, and the workplace is permitting more and more disabled people to join the labor force as well as the mainstream of American life. Advances in technology are also enabling persons with disabilities to utilize their strengths and talents to the fullest. And many employers -- recognizing all that these individuals have to offer -- are enthusiastically hiring workers with disabilities. 
Unfortunately, despite these advances -- as well as the major gains we have made in lowering the Nation's unemployment rate -- it has been estimated that only one-third of all disabled Americans of working age are currently employed. Yet millions of Americans with disabilities are both willing and able to take their rightful places in America's work force. As a Nation that takes justifiable pride in the unparalleled opportunities we have provided for all our citizens, we must continue working to enhance employment opportunities for persons with disabilities. 
The Congress, by Joint Resolution approved August 11, 1945, as amended (36 U.S.C. 155), has called for the designation of the month of October of each year as "National Disability Employment Awareness Month." This special month is a time for all Americans to join together in recognizing the unlimited potential of persons with disabilities and in renewing our determination to provide increased employment opportunities for them. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of October 1989 as National Disability Employment Awareness Month. I call upon all public officials, employers, and private citizens of this country to continue to help guarantee equal employment opportunities and the full rights and privileges of citizenship for disabled Americans. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH