By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The duty of law enforcement officers to protect the lives and property of their fellow Americans and to maintain civil order while upholding the constitutional rights of individuals is one that requires continuing, high-quality professional training. Imparting the knowledge and skills that officers need to fulfill their duties safely and effectively, training constitutes an essential part of law enforcement. 
Law enforcement officers often face complex crimes and violent criminals. Meeting the challenges posed by drug trafficking, organized crime, and other forms of illicit activity therefore demands ongoing, comprehensive training. This training must be multidisciplinary, encompassing not only law, self-defense, and the use of firearms but also first aid, forensics, and the physical and social sciences. Because law enforcement training covers such diverse and interesting fields of study, it underscores the many rewarding career opportunities available to Americans who would like to contribute to their communities through police work or related disciplines. 
This week we gratefully salute the dedicated, hardworking men and women who conduct and participate in law enforcement training. Their commitment to excellence and their determination to uphold the law help to ensure the preservation of our freedom and security. 
The Congress, by Public Law 101-372, has designated the week of January 6 through January 12, 1991, as "National Law Enforcement Training Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of January 6 through January 12, 1991, as National Law Enforcement Training Week. I urge all Americans to observe this week with appropriate exhibits, ceremonies, and activities, including programs designed to heighten the awareness of young people of career opportunities in law enforcement and related disciplines. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day of December, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH