By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to advance the development of human potential, to strengthen the capacity to provide quality education, and to increase opportunities for Hispanic Americans to participate in and benefit from Federal programs, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. There shall be established, in the Department of Education, the President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for Hispanic Americans. The members of the Commission shall be appointed by the President and shall report to the Secretary of Education. The Commission shall comprise representatives of educational, business, professional, and civic organizations that are committed to improving education, including organizations representing Hispanic Americans, as well as other persons deemed appropriate by the President. 
Sec. 2. The Commission shall provide advice to the Secretary of Education on the progress of Hispanic Americans toward achievement of national education goals and on such other aspects of the educational status of Hispanic Americans as it considers appropriate. 
Sec. 3. The Secretary of Education shall establish the White House Initiative ("Initiative") on Educational Excellence for Hispanic Americans. The Initiative shall be housed in, staffed, and supported by the Department of Education. The Initiative shall assist the Commission and the Secretary of Education in their activities to establish linkages between the Department of Education, Hispanic Americans, and the education and business community. The Initiative shall also assist the Secretary of Education in carrying out the Secretary's responsibilities under this order. 
Sec. 4. To the extent permitted by law, the Commission shall provide advice to the Secretary of Education as the Secretary develops and monitors Federal efforts to promote quality education for Hispanic Americans. Particular emphasis shall be given to: enhancing parental involvement; promoting early childhood education; removing barriers to success in education and work, particularly limited proficiency in the English language; and, helping students to achieve their potential at all educational levels. The Commission will also provide advice on ways to increase private sector and community involvement in improving education. 
Sec. 5. The Secretary of Education shall periodically report to the President on the progress achieved by Hispanic American students toward national education goals. The reports shall identify efforts of executive departments and agencies to improve the quality of education for Hispanic Americans and shall include data available on the participation of Hispanic Americans in Federal education programs. The reports shall also include any advice of the Commission and appropriate recommendations for improving Federal education programs. 
Sec. 6. To the extent permitted by law, executive departments and agencies shall be actively involved in helping advance educational opportunities for Hispanic Americans, including working with individuals and educational, business, and community groups serving Hispanic Americans. Executive departments and agencies, to the extent feasible, shall collect data on the participation of Hispanic Americans in Federal education programs. Executive departments and agencies, to the extent permitted by law, shall cooperate with the Secretary of Education in the preparation of the reports. The White House Office of National Service shall highlight and encourage the efforts of volunteers and the private sector to improve the quality of education for Hispanic Americans. 
Sec. 7. The Secretary of Education is directed to establish an Advisory Commission entitled the President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for Hispanic Americans. As provided in Section 1 of this order, the members of the Commission shall be appointed by the President. Notwithstanding any other executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), except that of reporting to the Congress, which are applicable to the Advisory Commission to be established by this order, shall be performed by the Secretary of Education, in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
George Bush
The White House,
September 24, 1990.