By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
On March 3, 1915, the Congress enacted legislation establishing the Federal Navy Reserve. That act has enabled the United States to remain at a high level of military preparedness in times of peace, as well as in times of crisis. 
Hundreds of thousands of Americans have served this Nation proudly and ably as Naval Reservists. More than 600,000 Naval Reservists rallied to action during World War I. During the Second World War, when the United States was embroiled in a life-and-death struggle to defend freedom and democracy from the brutal forces of totalitarianism, 80 percent of our Naval personnel were reservists. Whenever the lives of innocent people have been threatened, whenever any of our other national interests have been at stake, our reservists have demonstrated clearly their value as part of America's fighting forces. 
During the Berlin Crisis, the Korean and Vietnam conflicts, the Mayaguez incident, and in Grenada, the Persian Gulf, and Panama, Naval Reservists consistently played vital roles in advancing our national objectives. Yet they have also provided invaluable assistance to their country during nonmilitary emergencies. For example, in the aftermath of HurricaneHugo and the devastating 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake that struck the San Francisco Bay area, hardworking Naval Reservists were on the front lines of relief efforts. 
The men and women of the Naval Reserve boast a long tradition of courageous and dedicated service to their fellowman. As we enter a new decade and a new century, their operational readiness will continue to be critical to our Nation's security and well-being. That is why, as we salute all Naval Reservists, we also pay tribute to their families and employers -- their generous support and encouragement help our reservists to fulfill the dual role of citizen-sailor. 
In honor of the thousands of Americans who have served this country as U.S. Naval Reservists, and in grateful recognition of those reservists who have given their lives in the line of duty, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 266, has designated March 1990 as "United States Naval Reserve Month" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this occasion. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim March 1990, the 75th anniversary of the Naval Reserve, as United States Naval Reserve Month. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred adn fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH