By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended an advisory committee on science and technology, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. 
Establishment.
 There is established the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology ("Council"). The Council shall be composed of not more than 15 members, one of whom shall bethe Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, and 14 of whom shall be distinguished individuals from the private sector to be appointed by the Presidnet. The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall serve as Chairman of the Council. The Vice Chairman shall be appointed by the President from among the 14 private sector members. The Chairman shall report directly to the President. 
Sec. 2. 
Functions.
 (a) The Council shall advise the President on matters involving all areas of science and technology. 
(b) In the performance of its advisory duties the Council shall conduct a continuing review and assessment of developments in science and technology, and shall, through the Chairman, report thereon to the President whenever requested. 
(c) The Chairman may, from time to time, invite experts to investigate and report to the Council on specific issues of national consequence. 
Sec. 3. 
Administration.
 (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Council and its panels such information with respect to scientific and technological matters as required for the purpose of carrying out its functions. 
(b) Members of the Council shall serve without any compensation for their work on the Council. However, members appointed from among private citizens of the United States may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service -5707). 
(c) Any expenses of the Council shall be paid from the funds available for the expenses of the Office of Science and Technology Policy. 
(d) The Office of Administration shall, on a reimbursable basis, provide such administrative services as may be required. 
Sec. 4. 
General.
 (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, except that of reporting to the Congress, which are applicable to the Council, shall be performed by the Office of Administration in accord with the guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
(b) The Council shall terminate on June 30, 1991, unless sooner extended. 
George Bush
The White House,
January 19, 1990.