By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Each day we rely on stable and secure supplies of energy -- for our homes and motor vehicles, as well as for our farms, factories, and other places of work. By supplying consumers with needed heat, light, and power, our Nation's utility companies and other energy providers enable us to enjoy an enviably high standard of living and personal mobility. However, safe, reliable, and affordable sources of energy are more than a matter of comfort and convenience. They are also vital to America's economic productivity, its technical progress, and our national security. 
As current events in the Persian Gulf region have so forcefully reminded us, we must skillfully balance our determination to sustain economic growth; our need to use energy efficiently and to reduce this country's dependence on oil; and our commitment to a safer, cleaner environment. Ensuring a secure energy future for the United States will require the wise and effective development of all our Nation's energy resources, including coal, natural gas, and nuclear and hydroelectric power, and other forms of renewable energy. It will require the creation of new incentives for oil and gas exploration and the development of alternative fuels; and it will call for innovative conservation efforts. 
During its observance of "Energy Awareness Month," the United States Department of Energy will be working to promote increased public understanding of our Nation's energy needs and the energy choices available to us. Through the cooperative efforts of energy providers, educators, business and community leaders, individual consumers, and public officials at all levels of government, we can develop the sound energy policies and practices that are vital to our Nation's future. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 1990 as Energy Awareness Month. I urge the people of the United States to observe this month with appropriate educational programs and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this second day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH