By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The United States depends upon a safe and efficient air transportation system to move people and goods and to promote the social and economic development of our communities. The daily operation of this system would be impossible without the contributions of many highly skilled and hardworking individuals, including the flight attendants who serve aboard the Nation's air carriers. 
Flight attendants strive to make air travel as comfortable and enjoyable as possible. Their chief responsibility, however, is to guard the safety of aircraft passengers. Federal aviation regulations entrust flight attendants with an array of duties that are essential to protecting cabin occupants from in-flight hazards and to ensuring their safe evacuation in the event of an emergency. 
The men and women who serve as flight attendants carry out their duties with an outstanding degree of dedication. Their behavior has been calm and professional during accidents, hijackings, in-flight fires, sudden cabin decompression, and other situations of potential or immediate danger to human life. This tradition of professionalism has saved many passengers from injury or death and continues to increase the margin of safety for those who travel the airways today. 
In recognition of the contributions America's flight attendants have made, and continue to make, to the safety and comfort of the traveling public, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 278, has designated July 19, 1990, as "Flight Attendant Safety Professionals' Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of that day. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim July 19, 1990, as Flight Attendant Safety Professionals' Day. I urge the people of the United States to observe that day with appropriate ceremonies and activities designed to recognize the important role flight attendants play in enhancing the safety and convenience of our Nation's air transportation system. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH