By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Millions of older Americans are both willing and able to put their knowledge and experience to work for our country. Providing greater opportunities for them to do so is not only a wonderful way to demonstrate appreciation for these valued members of our society, it is also a sound investment in America's future. By helping senior citizens to remain in the work force or to pursue second careers after retirement, we can enhance America's competitive edge in the global economy. By encouraging older Americans to share their wisdom and skills as volunteers, we can strengthen and enrich our communities. 
Numerous employers already recognize the potential contributions of older men and women, and, today, programs for their hiring, retraining, and job retention are well established across the country. Through a variety of programs -- including programs launched as a result of the Older Americans Act of 1965 -- the Federal Government, State and local agencies, and members of the private sector and promoting meaningful opportunities for older workers. These various public and private efforts not only enable senior citizens to remain active, independent, and productive members of society but also allow our country to benefit from their insight and resourcefulness. Recognizing all of these benefits, I have proposed a liberalization of the Social Security earnings test in the Fiscal Year 1992 budget. If enacted, this proposal would allow older workers to continue to earn more income after age 65 before having their Social Security benefits reduced. 
To focus public attention on the accomplishments and the potential of older workers, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 133, has designated the week of March 10 through March 16, 1991 as "National Employ the Older Worker Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week of March 10 through March 16, 1991, as National Employ the Older Worker Week. I urge the Nation's public officials, leaders in business and labor, and voluntary organizations to provide meaningful opportunities for older workers. I also encourage all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH