By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
During Cancer Control Month we pause to celebrate the progress that has been made in the fight against this disease. Since the Americans cna better protect themselves from the threat of cancer, this observance includes concerted public awareness campaigns designed to disseminate lifesaving information about the prevention, early detection, and treatment of cancer. 
This year we mark the 20th anniversary of the National Cancer Act, which rallied the entire Nation behind efforts to focus increased attention on this disease. Every year since 1971, more and more Americans have survived the crucial first 5 years following a cancer diagnosis without recurrence. Thanks to improved early detection and more effective treatments, most of these patients are considered cured. Today half of all cancer patients can look forward to reaching this milestone. 
However, we know that these statistics would reflect even greater improvement if more cancers were found in their early, highly treatable stages. Currently, two-thirds of patients with melanoma and with cancers of the breast, mouth, colon, cervix, and prostate reach the 5-year, disease-free mark. The reason is simple: these cancers can usually be found by regular, periodic physical examinations and by appropriate cancer screening tests. Although people can and should examine themselves for the early signs of many types of cancer, a physician's judgment -- often based on the use of sophisticated testing equipment -- is also required. 
Although improved early detection and treatment is cause for hope, prevention is still the most effective way to control cancer. Research conducted and funded by the National Cancer Institute has been refining our understanding of cancer and giving us new strategies for preventing the disease. 
Through simple behavioral and dietary changes, every American can reduce his or her risk of developing cancer. Smoking accounts for about 30 percent of all cancer deaths, and a disproportionate number of these are among members of minority groups. By "breaking the habit," smokers can significantly reduce their risk of developing cancer. 
Diet is another area in which individuals can take control of their health. Studies of he relationship between diet and cancer make it clear that a diet high in fiber and low in fat protects against certain kinds of cancer. The American Cancer Society's Great American Food Fight Against Cancer is a concerted effort to bring related diet and food preparation information to every American. 
Employers and insurers can also contribute to cancer prevention efforts by offering incentives for smoking cessation, exercise, and weight loss and by providing health education and cancer screening programs in the workplace. 
Two decades of intensified research have borne fruit in every aspect of our national effort to reduce the toll cancer takes on our society. This month, all Americans are urged to learn more about recent strides in the flight against cancer and to take advantage of them. At the same time, every American is encouraged to see a doctor and dentist regulatory. 
IN 1938, the Congress passed a joint resolution (52 Stat. 148, requesting the President to issue an annual proclamation declaring April to be Cancer Control Month. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of April 1991 as Cancer Control Month. I invite the Governors of the fifty States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the appropriate officials of all other areas under the American flag, to issue similar proclamations. I also ask health care professionals, insurance companies, the communications and food industries, community groups, and individual citizens to join in continuing the progress made in fighting cancer. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twelfth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH