By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 5304(e) of title 5, United States Code, as amended, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), an advisory committee on locality-based comparability payments for General Schedule employees, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. 
Establishment
. There is established a Federal Salary Council (the "Council"). The Council shall be composed of nine members appointed by the President in accordance with section 5304(e)(1) of title 5, United States Code. The President shall designate one of the members to serve as Chairman of the Council and shall designate another member to serve as Vice Chairman of the Council. The Vice Chairman shall act as Chairman in the absence of the Chairman. 
Sec. 2. 
Function
. The Council shall meet with the President's Pay Agent, as desingated under section 2(a) of Executive Order No. 12748 of February 1, 1991, to provide views and recommendations regarding: 
(a) the establishment or modification of pay localities; 
(b) the coverage of annual surveys conducted by the Bureau of Labor Statistics under subsection 5304(d)(1)(A) of title 5, United States Code (including, but not limited to, the occupations, establishment sizes, and industries to be surveyed, and how pay localities are to be surveyed); 
(c) the process of comparing the rates of pay payable under the General Schedule with rates of pay for the same levels of work performed by non-Federal workers; and 
(d) the level of comparability payments that should be paid in order to eliminate or reduce pay disparities in accordance with the requirements of section 5304 of title 5, United States Coce. 
Sec. 3. 
Administration
. (a) Members of the Council shall receive no pay by reason of their service on the Council. 
(b) To the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations, the Office of Personnel Management (the "Office") shall provide such facilities and administrative support to the Council as the Director of the Office determines appropriate. 
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, except that of reporting to the Congress, which are applicable to the Council, shall be performed by the Director of the Office, in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. 
George Bush
The White House,
June 5, 1991