By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
No institution is more important to society than the family. Parents not only have primary responsibility for the physical care of their children, they also have the greatest influence in shaping their character. It is within the inimitable shelter of the family that children first learn the lessons of love and commitment, personal responsibility, and civic duty. 
Tragically, some families are unable to provide a minimally acceptable level of care for their children, resulting in the need for temporary or even permanent alternative placement for them. Foster families are the resource used most frequently to provide the loving guardianship and guidance that these unfortunate children need and deserve. 
Those Americans who open their hearts and their homes to foster children are making a significant difference in the lives of troubled children and families. Foster parents often provide temporary care and protection for children with complex needs -- children who might be physically or mentally handicapped or suffering from physical or emotional abuse -- while child welfare agencies work to help the biological family gain stability and strength. In some cases, foster parents may choose to adopt the youngsters in their care when a permanent home is needed. 
National Foster Care Month gives all Americans an opportunity to reflect on the importance of strong families to the future of every child and to the future of our country. It reminds each of us -- parents, public officials, religious and community leaders alike -- of our responsibility to identify the forces that erode the strength of the family and to develop ways to overcome them. For example, the Department of Health and Human Services reports that many of the problems faced by foster children today stem directly from their parents' substance abuse. Thus, our observance of National Foster Care Month should renew our resolve to win the war against drugs. 
This month also provides a special opportunity to recognize the dedication and generosity that foster families and professionals working in the field of foster care demonstrate throughout the year. In the United States more than 250,000 licensed foster families work together with social service providers, law enforcement officials, and others to assist troubled children and families. Their contributions to our communities and to our Nation are invaluable. 
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 154, has designated the month of May 1991 as "National Foster Care Month" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this month. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of May 1991 as National Foster Care Month. I call upon all Americans to observe this month with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteenth hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH