By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
During the travels that inspired his acclaimed work, Democracy in America, Alexis de Tocqueville was deeply impressed by the American tradition of neighbor helping neighbor. "What political power," he asked admiringly, "could ever carry on the vast multitude of lesser undertakings which the American citizens perform every day, with the assistance of the principle of association?" More than a tribute to the generosity of this country's people, his words also contained a telling observation about the blessings of freedom -- including our freedom of assembly. 
The American traditions of voluntary association and service continue to thrive today. In many ways, they are embodied by this Nation's bustling community centers. Offering a wide range of cultural, social, and recreational activities and services, these local institutions have been gathering places for people of all ages and all walks of life. By the turn of this century, community centers had become a haven for thousands of immigrants, who sought help learning English and adjusting to life in the United States. Now in their second century of service, community centers continue to offer the American people valuable assistance programs as well as rewarding opportunities for personal enrichment. 
This month, as we recognize the importance of our Nation's community centers, we also salute the many dedicated professionals and volunteers who make them work. These Americans are brilliant Points of Light whose efforts are making a real difference in the neighborhoods, cities, and towns in which they live. 
The Congress, by Public Law 101 - 587, has designated the month of October 1991 as "Community Center Month" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this month. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 1991 as Community Center Month. I invite all Americans to observe this month with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH