By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
For more than 100 years, our Nation's historically Black colleges and universities have provided rewarding educational opportunities for millions of Black Americans. These institutions have opened the doors of achievement to generations of students who otherwise might not have been able to enjoy the benefits of a higher education. Our entire Nation is richer as a result -- graduates of historically Black colleges and universities have made substantial contributions to our country in virtually every field of endeavor. 
The U.S. Department of Education reports that historically Black colleges and universities have provided undergraduate training for three-fourths of all Black Americans holding a doctorate degree, three-fourths of all Black officers in the Armed Forces, and four-fifths of all Black Americans who serve as Federal judges. 
Historically Black colleges and universities also lead in awarding baccalaureate degrees to minority men and women in the life sciences, the physical sciences, mathematics, and engineering. Because our National Education Goals include making America's elementary and secondary school students first in the world in math and science, the role of these institutions in promoting high standards for entering students, as well, is more significant than ever. 
Committed to excellence as well as to opportunity, our Nation's historically Black colleges and universities embody the kind of proud, determined spirit that is essential to achieving our National Education Goals. Recognizing their potential for leadership as we implement AMERICA 2000, our strategy to bring about a renaissance in American education, I am calling on the office that is responsible for the White House Initiative on Historically Black Colleges and Universities to play an integral part in assisting this Administration in its education efforts. I have also asked the Secretary of Education to continue to encourage and to assist historically Black colleges and universities in their vital mission. 
In recognition of their exemplary goals and achievements, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 40, has designated the week beginning September 8, 1991, and the week beginning September 6, 1992, as "National Historically Black Colleges Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of these occasions. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the weeks beginning September 8, 1991, and September 6, 1992, as National Historically Black Colleges Week. I invite all Americans to observe those weeks with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities, thereby demonstrating our appreciation of and support for these important educational institutions. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 9 day of Sept., in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH