By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Each year millions of Americans require immediate medical attention for illnesses and injuries. The Department of Health and Human Services reports that, on an average day in the United States, more than 170,000 men, women, and children are injured seriously enough to require professional emergency treatment. Responding to the needs of these Americans are members of the Nation's emergency medical services (EMS) systems. 
Members of the Nation's EMS teams help to save thousands of lives each year by providing swift, specialized care for seriously ill and injured persons. The highly dedicated and specially trained paramedics, physicians, nurses, and medical technicians who serve on these teams are supported in their work by a vital network of transport specialists, dispatchers, administrators, and instructors. Thanks to the expertise and the hard work of all of these men and women, Americans are assured high quality emergency medical care. 
Today emergency medical care providers are available on a 24-hour basis to anyone who needs immediate medical attention. Both professional and volunteer members of EMS teams respond to calls for help at all hours, often while working under difficult and even hazardous conditions. 
In addition to their courageous, lifesaving efforts in the field, EMS personnel have made many important contributions to education and research in trauma care and cardiopulmonary resuscitation. They have also played an integral role in educating the public about accident prevention and wellness. For example, members of the Nation's EMS teams have helped to inform citizens of all ages about the dangers of drunk driving and the need to use automobile safety belts, child restraints, and motorcycle helmets. 
This week we proudly salute the Nation's EMS personnel and gratefully acknowledge their outstanding contributions to the health and safety of their fellow Americans. 
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 109, has designated the weeks beginning May 12, 1991, and May 10, 1992, as "Emergency Medical Services Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of these occasions. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of May 12 through May 18, 1991, and the week of May 10 through May 16, 1992, as Emergency Medical Services Week. I call upon all Americans to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH