By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Throughout the United States concerned Americans are actively involved in recycling solid waste as a way to help protect our environment and to conserve our natural resources. Consumers are choosing to buy products made with recycled materials, and more and more people are recycling materials that were once discarded; business owners are using recycled materials to produce high quality goods; and government officials are working to encourage further efforts of this kind. 
Recycling is fast becoming a key part of our Nation's integrated waste management program. In response to public interest -- and in an effort to address rising disposal costs and shrinking landfill capacity -- more and more communities now collect recyclables at curbside. There are now more than 2,700 curbside recycling programs in communities across the United States. Beyond this, there exist thousands of other sites where citizens can drop off recyclables. Traditional "paper drives" and other voluntary recycling activities continue in many communities, and countless Americans "recycle" in their own backyards by composting yard trimmings. 
Businesses both large and small have also responded to the challenge of recycling. Historically, this country has benefitted from the unsung efforts of waste haulers and scrap dealers who have taken our discarded paper, metals, and other commodities and used them to create jobs and economic opportunity. Recently, however, other businesses have stepped forward to apply American ingenuity in collecting all kinds of recyclable commodities and processing and remanufacturing them to produce new, high quality goods. 
While we have made significant and commendable progress, all sectors of society must continue to work together to promote recycling. Public and private research efforts to develop more cost-effective and efficient recycling technologies are very important. In particular, we must explore new initiatives to encourage the use of recovered materials as feedstock for the manufacture of marketable products. Only when recovered materials are returned to the marketplace and purchased by consumers is recycling complete. 
Today, every American can help to promote recycling by participating in curbside collection and other recycling programs and by purchasing recycled products whenever practical. On this occasion, let us reaffirm our commitment to reducing the amount of pollution that we generate overall and to recycling those materials that can be recovered for beneficial use. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 246, has designated April 15, 1992, as "National Recycling Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim April 15, 1992, as National Recycling Day. I urge all Americans to observe this day with appropriate programs and activities that underscore and renew our commitment to recycling and other forms of environmental stewardship throughout the year. I specifically urge the Federal Government to attend to my direction of Executive Order 12780 regarding recycling and procurement in order to carry out its due share of continually improving the environment of the United States. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH