By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
America's marine resources are a national treasure. The vast systems of lakes, rivers, and bays across this great land, and the oceans which touch our shores have played a pivotal role in the development of United States industry, agriculture, energy production, and commerce. Beautiful and inviting, our Nation's inland waterways and coastal regions have also provided generations of Americans with opportunities for relaxation and fun. This year, it is anticipated that more than 19 million Americans will engage in recreational boating. 
While we Americans are fortunate to have the freedom to enjoy boating and related activities on the open water, at the same time, it is important to remember that an improperly handled watercraft can be dangerous or even deadly. Tragically, about 900 persons die each year on our Nation's waterways. All too often, these deaths are caused by human carelessness and neglect. 
To help prevent boating-related accidents, the United States Coast Guard is working together with other government agencies and with private organizations around the country to encourage Americans to "Boat Smart." Smart boating begins with making safety the first priority of every pilot and passenger. Every watercraft operator should know his or her vessel -- its equipment, its condition, and its capabilities -- as well as the rules and courtesies of navigation. Pilots should have knowledge of and respect for the marine environment in which they will be operating, and all boaters should be aware of prevailing and forecasted weather conditions. Pilots and passengers alike should be equipped with life jackets and know what to do in the event of an emergency. Moreover, because the ability to "Boat Smart" requires clear judgment and physical readiness, no one should operate a watercraft while under the influence of alcohol or drugs. 
As these fundamentals of safety indicate, smart boating goes hand in hand with common sense -- and with a sense of personal responsibility and concern for others. 
To help promote safe boating practices, the Congress, by joint resolution approved June 4, 1958 as amended, has authorized and requested the President to proclaim annually the week beginning on the first Sunday in June as "National Safe Boating Week." 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning June 7, 1992, as National Safe Boating Week. I encourage the Governors of the 50 States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and officials of other areas subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to provide for the observance of this week. I also urge all Americans to take this opportunity to learn more about boating safety. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH