By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Less than 2 years ago, Americans watched proudly as our Nation's military personnel led the international effort to liberate Kuwait from brutal occupation by Iraqi forces under the command of Saddam Hussein. From the deployment of nearly half a million active-duty personnel and reservists to the precise aerial bombing and final ground assault against entrenched enemy forces, our Nation's service men and women demonstrated the tremendous courage, professionalism, and skill that we have come to expect of our United States Armed Forces. Now, as we prepare to celebrate Veterans Day, our annual tribute to all those who have served our country in uniform, it is fitting that we recognize the valuable knowledge, experience, and training that our soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, and Coast Guardsmen have to offer when they reenter civilian life. 
Through their outstanding achievements in the Persian Gulf region and elsewhere, America's veterans have helped to change the world. In the past few years, we have seen the collapse of the Berlin Wall, the disintegration of the Warsaw Pact, and the dissolution of the Soviet Union itself--each a resounding vindication of democratic ideals and a clear victory for the Americans who defended the cause of freedom around the globe. 
Now that they have helped to change the world, America's veterans can play an important role in achieving continued prosperity and progress here at home. As we restructure our national defense forces in light of new international security requirements, we can ensure that the United States continues to benefit from the knowledge and expertise of its veterans by encouraging their full participation in the civilian work force. 
Like every nation, the United States is challenged today by a global economic transition. Because Americans who have served in the military have the discipline, motivation, and skills--including the highly technical skills--that are essential to keeping American business and industry competitive, we do well to recognize the importance of recruiting and hiring veterans. 
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 542, has designated the week of November 8 through November 14, 1992, as "Hire a Veteran Week" and has requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of November 8 through November 14, 1992, as Hire a Veteran Week. I encourage all Americans--in particular, employers, labor leaders, and public officials--to support the campaign to employ men and women who served our country in the Armed Forces. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this first day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth. 
GEORGE BUSH