By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the provisions of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980, as amended 
et seq.
), and the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, ch. 288, 63 Stat. 377 (codified as amended in scattered sections of the United States Code), and in order to ensure that Federal departments, agencies, and laboratories assist in mathematics and science education to meet the National Education Goals, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1. 
Assistance in Mathematics and Science Education.
 (a) Each executive department and agency (hereinafter referred to as "agency") that: (i) has a scientific mission; (ii) employs significant numbers of scientists, mathematicians, and engineers; or (iii) has a Federal laboratory; as determined by the Committee established by section 2(d) of this order, shall, to the maximum extent permitted by law: 
(1) Assist in the mathematics and science education of our Nation's students, teachers, parents, and the public by establishing programs at their agency to provide for training elementary and secondary school teachers to improve their knowledge of mathematics and science. Such programs, to the maximum extent possible, shall involve partnerships with universities, State and local elementary and secondary school authorities, corporations, and community based organizations. These activities shall be coordinated with other relevant Federal teacher training programs (e.g., those administered by the National Science Foundation, the Department of Education, and the Department of Energy). Because of its extensive experience in teacher training programs at its Federal laboratories, the Department of Energy, when requested by other agencies, shall assist in the development of these activities. 
(2) Provide brief periods of excused absence for Federal employees to assist in the conduct of mathematics and science education programs, in accordance with guidelines of the Office of Personnel Management. 
(b) Develop, within 6 months of the issuance of this order, an implementation plan to fulfill the requirements of this section. The plan shall be consistent with approved agency budget totals. The plan shall be coordinated through the Committee on Education and Human Resources of the Federal Coordinating Council for Science, Engineering, and Technology. 
Sec. 2. 
Transfer of Education-Related Federal Equipment to Elementary and Secondary Schools.
 (a) To the maximum extent permitted by law, all agencies shall give highest preference to elementary and secondary schools in the transfer or donation of education-related Federal equipment. All such transfers to the schools shall be made at the lowest cost permitted by law. 
(b) Each agency, to the maximum extent permitted by law, shall: 
(1) Identify and transfer excess education-related Federal equipment at that agency that can be transferred to elementary and secondary schools by: 
(A) Direct transfer of excess Federal research equipment in accordance with the provisions of subsection 3710(i) of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980, as amended (i)). The transfer of such excess equipment shall be reported to the General Services Administration (GSA); or 
(B) Reporting such excess equipment to the GSA for donation when declared surplus in accordance with the provisions of section 203(j) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (j)); 
(2) Allow the elementary and secondary schools sufficient time to select available education-related Federal equipment before it is disposed of elsewhere; 
(3) Provide training and technical assistance, where possible, to recipients of education-related Federal equipment to ensure that the equipment will be utilized to its full capability; and 
(4) Attempt to provide education-related Federal equipment to those elementary and secondary schools with the greatest need or to the recipients of federally funded mathematics and science projects where the equipment would further enhance the progress of the project. 
(c) The GSA shall: 
(1) To the maximum extent permitted by law, ensure that elementary and secondary schools are notified of the opportunity to obtain education-related Federal equipment, and, where practical, provide to elementary and secondary schools a current listing of education-related Federal equipment that is available for transfer, and, when requested, provide a current listing of this available equipment to agencies; and 
(2) Maintain a record of the education-related Federal equipment provided to elementary and secondary schools pursuant to this order. 
(d) There is hereby established a Coordinating Committee on Education-Related Federal Equipment (Committee). The Committee membership shall include, but not be limited to, representatives of the Departments of Defense, Education, Energy, and Health and Human Services, the National Science Foundation, the General Services Administration, and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. 
(1) The Co-chairs of the Committee shall be the Administrator of General Services and the Secretary of Education, or their designees. 
(2) The Committee shall assess the availability of appropriate education-related Federal equipment and mechanisms for expeditious notification and transfer of the equipment to elementary and secondary schools and shall resolve issues that may arise in implementing this order. 
(3) The Committee shall inform, as necessary, non-Federal groups (e.g., National Governors Association, State Agencies for Surplus Property, etc.) of issues concerning the transfer of education-related Federal equipment. 
(4) The Committee may consult with the Committee on Education and Human Resources of the Federal Coordinating Council for Science, Engineering, and Technology concerning activities outlined in this order, particularly those activities listed in section 1 of this order. 
Sec. 3. 
Definitions. 
For the purposes of this order: 
(a) "Education-related Federal equipment" means excess or surplus personal computers and related peripheral equipment, research equipment, and education-related equipment that is appropriate for use in mathematics and science curricula in elementary and secondary school education. 
(b) "Elementary and secondary schools" means individual public or private educational institutions encompassing kindergarten through twelfth grade, as well as public school districts. 
(c) "Federal laboratories" has the meaning set forth in the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (d)(2)). 
(d) "Research equipment" means excess or surplus Federal property appropriate for mathematics and science education activities at the elementary and secondary education levels, as defined by and in accordance with the regulations of the agency that owns the research equipment. 
George Bush
The White House,
November 16, 1992.