By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
While our flag is the greatest tangible symbol of the United States -- one recognized and admired around the world -- country and western music might well be described as America's signature in song. 
With nothing fancy, yet with every bit of pride befitting a great land such as ours, country and western music celebrates the things that our Nation has always valued most: faith, family, and freedom. It is the sound of hardworking, God-fearing men and women who cherish home and country and who would never turn their backs on a true friend. It is also the sound of a people who know how to kick up their feet and enjoy some good-natured fun and relaxation at the end of an honest day's labor. 
While country music celebrates all the good things in life, it does not overlook life's various disappointments and struggles. A frequent listener is just as likely to be reminded of broken hearts and heroes lost in battle as the beauty of clear blue sky or the laughter of friends and loved ones. From the sad strains of a traditional ballad to the stirring sound of bluegrass and honky-tonk, country music is honest, straight-forward music that recalls the full range of human experience. Such sincerity and scope may well be the reason why "America's music" is so very popular among millions of people around the globe. 
This month we tip our hats to the many talented composers, lyricists, and performers who bring country and western music to our ears. These artists carry on a great tradition of musical achievement, and we are very proud of their outstanding work. Like countless other products "Made in the U.S.A," country music reflects the best in American creativity and craftsmanship. 
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 520, has designated October 1992 as "Country Music Month" and has requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this month. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 1992 as Country Music Month. I invite all Americans to observe this month with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth. 
GEORGE BUSH