By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The essence of America's greatness has always been the diversity of its people. From the times of native settlement through the immigration of people from hundreds of other countries, the United States has gained immeasurably from the strengths of the peoples who have come to our shores. The Jewish community is an important part of this legacy.
Jewish citizens have contributed their knowledge and skills to every field of endeavor, including education, business, industry, science, and the arts. Their names are permanently etched in America's history books, and the Jewish community's rich heritage and culture pervade all aspects of American society.
Throughout the years, immigrating to America meant educational and economic opportunity, as well as freedom from oppression, for the Jewish people. For people who suffered under the yoke of dictators and ethnic hatred, America's democracy offered a chance for political involvement and religious liberty.
By wagon and train, by horseback and all other means of conveyance, the Jewish people have traveled across the vast expanse of America to create prosperous and rewarding lives for themselves. In the process, they have improved the social, political, and economic fabric of our Nation. To celebrate these contributions and recognize the people, traditions, and culture of the Jewish faith, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 30, has designated the week of April 25, 1993, through May 2, 1993, as "Jewish Heritage Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of April 25, 1993, through May 2, 1993, as Jewish Heritage Week. I call upon the people of the United States to observe the week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON