By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including sections 105, 107, and 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment. There is established the Domestic Policy Council ("the Council").
Sec. 2. Membership. The Council shall comprise the:
 (a)
 President, who shall serve as a Chairman of the Council;
 (b)
 Vice President;
 (c)
 Secretary of Health and Human Services;
 (d)
 Attorney General;
 (e)
 Secretary of Labor;
 (f)
 Secretary of Veterans Affairs;
 (g)
 Secretary of the Interior;
 (h)
 Secretary of Education;
 (i)
 Secretary of Housing and Urban Development;
 (j)
 Secretary of Agriculture;
 (k)
 Secretary of Transportation;
 (l)
 Secretary of Commerce;
 (m)
 Secretary of Energy;
 (n)
 Secretary of the Treasury;
 (o)
 Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency;
 (p)
 Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers;
 (q)
 Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
 (r)
 Assistant to the President for Economic Policy;
 (s)
 Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy;
 (t)
 Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of National Service;
 (u)
 Senior Advisor to the President for Policy Development;
 (v)
 Director, Office of National Drug Control Policy;
 (w)
 AIDS Policy Coordinator; and
(x) Such other officials of Executive departments and agencies as the President may, from time to time, designate. Sec. 3. Meeting of the Council. The President, or upon his direction, the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy ("the Assistant"), may convene meetings of the Council. The President shall preside over the meetings of the Council, provided that in his absence the Vice President, and in his absence the Assistant, will preside.
Sec. 4. Functions. (a) The principal functions of the Council are: (1) to coordinate the domestic policy-making process; (2) to coordinate domestic policy advice to the President; (3) to ensure that domestic policy decisions
and programs are consistent with the President’s stated goals, and to ensure that those goals are being effectively pursued; and (4) to monitor implementation of the President’s domestic policy agenda. The Assistant may take such actions, including drafting a Charter, as may be necessary or appropriate to implement such functions.
 (b)
 All executive departments and agencies, whether or not represented on the Council, shall coordinate domestic policy through the Council.
 (c)
 In performing the foregoing functions, the Assistant will, when appropriate, work with the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy.
 Sec. 5. Administration. (a) The Council may function through established or ad hoc committees, task forces or interagency groups.
 (b)
 The Council shall have a staff to be headed by the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy. The Council shall have such staff and other assistance as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this order.
 (c)
 All executive departments and agencies shall cooperate with the Council and provide such assistance, information, and advice to the Council as the Council may request, to the extent permitted by law.
William J. Clinton
THE WHITE HOUSE,
August 16, 1993.