By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), and in order to establish a Bipartisan Commission on Entitlement Reform, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the Bipartisan Commission on Entitlement Reform ("Commission"). The Commission shall comprise 30 members to be appointed by the President. Ten members shall be Senators, five each from the Democratic and Republican parties. Ten members shall be Members of the House of Representatives, five each from the Democratic and Republican parties. Ten members shall be individuals from either the public or private sector who have experience and expertise in the areas to be considered by the Commission.
 (b)
 The President shall designate a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson from among the members of the Commission. Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Commission shall recommend potential longterm budget savings measures involving (1) revisions to statutory entitlement and other mandatory programs; and (2) alternative tax reform proposals. The Commission shall report its recommendations respecting potential entitlement and other mandatory program savings and tax system revisions to the National Economic Council and to the Congressional leadership by May 1, 1994.
 (b)
 The Commission shall decide by a three-fifths vote which recommendations to include in the report. At the request of any Commission member, the report will include that Commission member’s dissenting views or opinions.
 (c)
 The Commission may, for the purpose of carrying out its functions, hold such hearings and sit and act at such times and places, as the Commission may find advisable. Sec. 3. Administration. (a) To the extent permitted by law, the heads of executive departments, agencies, and independent instrumentalities shall provide the Commission, upon request, with such information as it may require for the purposes of carrying out its functions.
 (b)
 Upon request of the Chairperson of the Commission, the head of any Federal agency or instrumentality shall, to the extent possible and subject to the discretion of such head, (1) make any of the facilities and services of such agency or instrumentality available to the Commission; and (2) detail any of the personnel of such agency or instrumentality to the Commission, to assist the Commission in carrying out its duties.
 (c)
 Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation for their work on the Commission. While engaged in the work of the Commission, members appointed from among private citizens of the United States may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C. 5701–5707) to the extent funds are available for such purposes.
 (d)
 To the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations, the Department of Health and Human Services shall provide the Commission with administrative services, funds, facilities, staff, and other support services necessary for the performance of the Commission’s
functions. The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall perform the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) ("Act"), except that of reporting to the Congress, in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services.
(e) The Commission shall adhere to the requirements set forth in the Act. All executive branch officials assigned duties by the Act shall comply with its requirements with respect to the Commission.
Sec. 4. General Provision. The Commission shall terminate 30 days after submitting its report.
William J. Clinton
THE WHITE HOUSE,
November 5, 1993.