By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
This year our Nation's firefighters will respond to more than 2,300,000 fires and 8,700,000 additional emergencies. They will, as they do every year, save thousands of lives and millions of dollars worth of property through their dedicated efforts. Their job is, by far, one of the Nation's most dangerous, and their sacrifices are many.
In an average year, 110 firefighters are killed in the line of duty. Fully 50 percent of all firefighters are injured in valiant service each year. Although the work of these brave men and women is not often adequately recognized, they are quite often the very first people we can expect to respond--day or night--when the safety of our lives or our homes is in jeopardy.
At a time when our Nation is rededicating itself to the idea of caring for others, it is important that we recognize those who daily risk---and sometimes forfeit--their lives to help their fellow Americans. Our Nation offers special thanks to its firefighters on December 15th, "National Firefighters Day." Let this be a day to remember the men and women who protect us and who have given their lives in the line of duty. They all are heroes. By honoring them, we pay special tribute to the spirit of community and unselfishness that is such an integral part of their character. Firefighters are inspirational examples for all of us and are worthy of our highest praise for their tireless devotion to fulfilling their sacred responsibilities to society.
Let us also thank the generous members of the many organizations that constantly work toward the mutual goals of firefighter health and safety.
To enhance public awareness of the courage and supreme devotion of our Nation's firefighters, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 272, has designated December 15, 1993, as National Firefighters Day, and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this occasion.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim December 15, 1993, as National Firefighters Day. I call upon all public officials and the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of December, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON