By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The National Youth Sports Program (NYSP) provides economically disadvantaged children between the ages of 10 through 16 opportunities to earn and learn self-respect through a comprehensive sports and educational instruction program. Today, in its 25th year, the NYSP serves more than 69,000 young people at 173 colleges and universities in 44 States and the District of Columbia.
The children who participate in the program receive supervised training in sport competitions, personal health care, proper nutrition, and free medical and follow-up examinations. They obtain information on drug and alcohol abuse and are taught about good study habits. Career and educational opportunities in math and science are also offered. In addition to the benefits provided to the children, the NYSP enables staff at the participating institutions to become involved in their communities and in providing solutions to community problems.
For more than 25 years, the NYSP has worked to develop effective partnerships with several Federal agencies and departments and with the Nation's colleges and universities acting through the National Collegiate Athletic Association. These unique partnerships have allowed Federal funds to be used to provide direct services for youth, have enabled institutions to contribute their facilities and personnel, and have permitted public and private businesses to donate equipment and supplies needed for the children to participate in the program during the summer.
By utilizing competitive sports as a means of expression, it has allowed these children to express their pain and deal with their difficult living conditions in a positive way, rather than in a self-destructive manner. For many of these children, a sense of accomplishment and empowerment has taken the place of despair. I urge all Americans to join me on this special day to celebrate the significant gains that NYSP's 25 years of service has provided to these children.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 88, has designated July 1, 1993, as "National Youth Sports Program Day" and has requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim July 1, 1993, as National Youth Sports Program Day. I call upon all Americans to observe this day by demonstrating their respect for all those individuals who participate so successfully in these programs and by showing gratitude for those who unselfishly share their experiences, skills, and talents with the disadvantaged youths who participate in NYSP activities across the country.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this first day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON