By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
More than ever, as a Nation and as individual consumers, we need to make every dollar count. Yet, despite the consumeroriented quality of the U.S. marketplace and the concerted efforts of our law enforcement agencies, marketplace fraud drains at least $100 billion from the economy every year. The loss is not just in dollars, but in consumer confidence -- the driving force behind a strong economy.
Fraud has the greatest impact on the most vulnerable consumers. No one, rich or poor, young or old, literate or illiterate, English-speaking or foreign-speaking, able-bodied or disabled, is exempt. What's more, in this electronic global marketplace, fraud has become a "borderless crime" that affects consumers around the world.
Since 1982, the President has designated one week of the year to spotlight consumer education as a vital tool in helping consumers make smart shopping decisions. This year, during "National Consumers Week," the focus is on fraud. Consumers can protect their resources and end the costly drain on the economy by knowing how to spot the signs of fraud and where to turn when they suspect fraud.
If you believe that you have been defrauded, the Better Business Bureau, representatives of Federal, State, and local governments, and even the media can help you. Exposing fraud not only helps you, but it can help prevent others from becoming victims in the future.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week beginning October 24, 1993, as National Consumers Week. I urge business leaders, educators, professionals, public officials, consumer leaders, and members of the media to observe this week with appropriate activities that emphasize the important role smart consumers play in keeping our markets open, competitive, fair, and honest.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON