By the authority vested in me as President of the United States by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including sections 105, 107, and 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment. There is established the National Economic Council ("the Council"). 
Sec. 2. Membership. The Council shall comprise the: 
(a) President, who shall serve as Chairman of the Council; 
(b) Vice President; 
(c) Secretary of State; 
(d) Secretary of the Treasury; 
(e) Secretary of Agriculture; 
(f) Secretary of Commerce; 
(g) Secretary of Labor; 
(h) Secretary of Housing and Urban Development; 
(i) Secretary of Transportation; 
(j) Secretary of Energy; 
(k) Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency; 
(l) Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers; 
(m) Director of the Office of Management and Budget; 
(n) United States Trade Representative; 
(o) Assistant to the President for Economic Policy; 
(p) Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy; 
(q) National Security Adviser; 
(r) Assistant to the President for Science and Technology Policy; and 
(s) Such other officials of executive departments and agencies as the President may, from time to time, designate. Sec. 3. Meetings of the Council. The President, or upon his direction, the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy ("the Assistant"), may convene meetings of the Council. The President shall preside over the meetings of the Council, provided that in his absence the Vice President, and in his absence the Assistant, will preside. 
Sec. 4. Functions. (a) The principal functions of the Council are: (1) to coordinate the economic policy-making process with respect to domestic and international economic issues; (2) to coordinate economic policy advice to the President; (3) to ensure that economic policy decisions and programs are consistent with the President’s stated goals, and to ensure that those goals are being effectively pursued; and (4) to monitor implementation of the President’s economic policy agenda. The Assistant may take such actions, including drafting a Charter, as may be necessary or appropriate to implement such functions. 
(b) All executive departments and agencies, whether or not represented on the Council, shall coordinate economic policy through the Council. 
(c) In performing the foregoing functions, the Assistant will, when appropriate, work in conjunction with the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy and the Assistant to the President for National Security. 
(d) The Secretary of the Treasury will continue to be the senior economic official in the executive branch and the President’s chief economic spokesperson. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget, as the President’s principal budget spokesperson, will continue to be the senior budget official in the executive branch. The Council of Economic Advisers will continue its traditional analytic, forecasting and advisory functions. 
Sec. 5. Administration. (a) The Council may function through established or ad hoc committees, task forces or interagency groups. 
(b) The Council shall have a staff to be headed by the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy. The Council shall have such staff and other assistance as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this order. 
(c) All executive departments and agencies shall cooperate with the Council and provide such assistance, information, and advice to the Council as the Council may request, to the extent permitted by law. 
William J. Clinton
THE WHITE HOUSE,
January 25, 1993.