By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The Americans with Disabilities Act is a national monument to freedom. Contained within its broad pillars of independence, inclusion, and empowerment is the core ideal of equality that has defined this country since its beginnings. For when America's founders set down the guiding words of freedom, first among them, proudly were, "We the People." Our young Nation would be governed not by kings or tyrants—America would be led by farmers and doctors, artists and merchants, teachers and parents, each possessing widely different knowledge and skills. Some would be active participants in community life. Others would embrace the quiet joys of home. But all of the people would make an essential contribution to the character and quality of America.
On this, the fourth anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), we mark the full extension of the ADA's employment provisions to our Nation's small businesses. In 1990, members of both political parties resolved to make laws of inclusion, and today, telephone relay systems connect deaf and hard-of-hearing individuals to Americans everywhere. Four years ago, we pledged to build bridges to independence, and today, architectural barriers are coming down in office buildings and movie theaters across the country, making room for new passageways to participation. We moved to craft policies of empowerment, and today, leaders in public and private sectors alike are recognizing the vast potential of every citizen and the breathtaking determination of each to create and to achieve. With this Act, we began a new era for 49 million of our fellow citizens. And today, celebrating the rights of people with disabilities, we declare in no uncertain terms that "We the People" means all of us, with our myriaddifferences and doubts, with our infinite talents and aspirations.
This day—a wonderful, vigorous celebration of the progress and possibilities for equal opportunity—must also include an equally vigorous commitment to continue the fight. Now is the time to act on our understanding that having a physical or mental disability is a part of the human experience. We must work to fully implement the provisions of the ADA and to see that these and related laws are aggressively enforced in our schools and workplaces, in our national government and local councils. Most important, we must finally overcome the remaining handicaps of prejudice and stereotype. Discrimination, ignorance, intolerance—these barriers are a far greater tragedy than any common limitation of the human mind or body. And it is only in overcoming these that America will truly be worthy of its people.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim July 26, 1994, as the Anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-sixth day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON