By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
With the signing of the first Mother's Day Proclamation 80 years ago, President Woodrow Wilson set aside the second Sunday in May as a special time to pay tribute to America's mothers. This year I join with Americans across this great land on May 8, 1994, to honor our mothers with the appreciation and affection they so richly deserve.
Indisputably, the role of mothers has changed greatly in the last half-century. They are bread makers and breadwinners, heads of households and heads of state, caretakers of elderly parents and of newborn infants. They are also volunteers in our communities, schools, and religious organizations. Mothers find time to inspire and challenge their children to dream big dreams and to do good deeds. They provide encouragement to their children to reach for the stars and to strive for excellence. When our mothers succeed, our children succeed. When children succeed, our Nation's future is assured.
Mothers are not only our life-givers, but they are also our nurturers who sustain us with deep and unconditional love. In a world of constant change, they establish a reliable foundation of unchanging values. By instilling strong moral principles and showing concern for social improvement and well-being, mothers have used their talents, ideals, and energies to shape our families, communities, and Nation. For their abiding devotion, love, patience, and loyalty, mothers, whether biological, foster, or adoptive, hold an enduring place in our hearts. They are anchors of their American families—our Nation's most important source of strength. My own mother's courage and determination profoundly influenced me in so many ways, and she will always remain a guiding force throughout my life.
Mother's Day gives us time to pause and reflect on the manner in which mothers contribute to their families and the Nation through their hard work, dedication, and daily sacrifices. We can best observe Mother's Day by expressing our thanks and our gratitude for the blessings and bounties that motherhood holds.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Sunday, May 8, 1994, as "Mother's Day." I urge all Americans to express their love and respect for their mothers and to consider how much they have contributed to the well-being of our country. I call upon all citizens to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this
fifth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON