By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Soon, our Nation and much of the world will pause to remember the historic events that took place 50 years ago—events that secured the freedom we have long enjoyed. As we honor the heroes of D-Day and World War II, it is fitting to include among them the civilian American merchant mariners who sailed in harm's way to supply the needs of our Allied fighting forces. More than 700 cargo ships and 6,000 seafarers were lost to enemy action. Their sacrifices were crucial to victory, as were the unparalleled efforts of American shipbuilding.
The world has changed in many ways in the last half century, but America remains a maritime Nation. We depend upon ocean vessels to transport the vast majority of our huge international trade, which continues to expand. We also consistently rely on sea power to support our military forces.
As we look to the future, it is vital to maintain an American presence in the movement of our international commerce and to retain the capability of building ships. During the past year, this Administration has proposed, and is implementing programs to ensure, the future of America's maritime industries.
Last October, we announced a five-step plan to strengthen the American shipbuilding industry and to make it more competitive in the international market. Our plan promotes innovative, standardized ship designs that will reduce costs through state-of-the-art technology and series production methods.
In March, we sent the Congress the Maritime Security and Trade Act of 1994. Its enactment will ensure that United States flag merchant ships will maintain their role in carrying a significant portion of our vast trade and that American ships and American seafarers will continue to provide reliable sealift support in national emergencies.
Our Nation is charting a new course, reinforcing our heritage as a great maritime power and supporting our interests as the world's leading international trader.
In recognition of the importance of the U.S. Merchant Marine, the Congress, by a joint resolution approved May 20, 1933, has designated May 22 of each year as "National Maritime Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue annually a proclamation calling for its appropriate observance.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim May 22, 1994, as National Maritime Day. I urge the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities and by displaying the flag of the United States at their homes and other appropriate places. I also request that all ships sailing under the American flag dress ship on that day.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this
nineteenth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON