By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The number of Americans aged 65 or older is increasing steadily. In 1992, seniors represented 12.7 percent of the U.S. population—about one in every eight Americans. Americans are living longer, healthier lives than at any other time in our history, yet one-third of older people evaluate their health as only fair or poor. About 6.1 million senior citizens have disabilities that leave them in need of regular care and help with their daily tasks.
When someone we love becomes ill, has an accident, or needs assistance, we can all become caregivers at a moment's notice. Care is usually provided by family members, often wives, daughters, and daughters-in-law, who may sacrifice their own employment opportunities to bring joy and comfort into the lives of loved ones. Selflessly offering their energy and love to those in need, family caregivers have earned our heartfelt gratitude and profound respect.
Caregivers understand how much we need and depend on one another. Indeed, Americans understand that our strength as a Nation has always flowed from the sturdy bonds of family. In recognition of this fact, we all must work harder to ensure that our Nation's caregivers receive the support and assistance they deserve.
The Congress, by Public Law 103-319, has designated November 20, 1994 through November 26, 1994, as "National Family Caregivers Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of November 20-26, 1994, as National Family Caregivers Week and call upon all government agencies and the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this third day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON