By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
1. Pursuant to sections 501 and 502 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended ("Trade Act") (19 U.S.C. 2461 and 2462), and having due regard for the eligibility criteria set forth therein, I have determined that it is appropriate to designate Armenia as a beneficiary developing country for purposes of the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP).
2. Pursuant to section 504(f) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2464(f)), I have determined that the per capita gross national product of The Bahamas has exceeded the applicable limit provided for in section 504(f). Accordingly, pursuant to section 504(a) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2464(a)), I have determined that it is appropriate to suspend the designation of The Bahamas as a beneficiary developing country for purposes of the GSP, and pursuant to section 504(f) of the Trade Act, I have determined that it is appropriate to terminate such designation.
3. Pursuant to section 504(f) of the Trade Act, I have determined that the per capita gross national product of Israel has exceeded the applicable limit provided for in section 504(f). Accordingly, I have determined that it is appropriate to terminate the designation of Israel as a beneficiary developing country for purposes of the GSP.
4. Section 604 of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2483) authorizes the President to embody in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTS) the substance of the provisions of that Act, and of other acts affecting import treatment, and actions thereunder.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, acting under the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, including but not limited to sections 501, 504, and 604 of the Trade Act, do proclaim that:
(1) General note 4(a) to the HTS, listing those countries whose products are eligible for benefits of the GSP, is modified by: (a) inserting "Armenia" in alphabetical order in the list of independent countries; (b) deleting "Bahamas, The" and "Israel" from the list of independent countries; and (c) deleting "Bahamas, The" from the list of Member Countries of the Caribbean Common Market, and amending the heading of that list to read "Member Countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM), except The Bahamas".
(2) General note 4(d) to the HTS is modified as provided in Annex I to this proclamation.
(3) Any provisions of previous proclamations and Executive orders inconsistent with the provisions of this proclamation are hereby superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.
(4)(a) The modifications to the HTS made by paragraph (1)(a) of this proclamation shall be effective with respect to articles that are: (i) imported on or after January 1, 1976, and (ii) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 15 days after the date of publication of this proclamation in the Federal Register. (b) The modifications to the HTS made by paragraphs (1)(b), (1)(c), and (2) shall be effective on July 1, 1995.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this third day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON