By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Classical music is one of the glories of the world, a living tradition that enriches the lives of millions of Americans. In the concert halls of our bustling cities, in the community centers of our small towns, and in countless homes everywhere, classical music brings joy and inspiration to our citizens. Its phrases and themes have long spoken to our national love of beauty and our common passion for spirited expression.
More than one hundred years ago, the Bohemian composer Antonin Dvorak came to America—traveling from New York to Iowa to admire the awesome potential of this great land. The New World Symphony, Dvorak's tribute to our country, touches us still with its references to the music of Native American and African American people.
Indeed, classical music is a universal language. Whether the musicians speak English, Spanish, Russian, Japanese, or Hebrew, all recognize the same notes. Whatever cultural tradition is evoked by its cords and rhythms, classical music stirs emotions we all share. Among the many music lovers gathered to enjoy a performance, each individual listener feels the powerful dynamism of music's resonant voice.
This month, let us celebrate the artistic excellence that brings classical music to life. We honor the many remarkable composers, conductors, and performers of the past whose works continue to delight us, and we applaud today's musicians, whose talents remind us of the continuity and grandeur of the human experience. Each has contributed to the vast body of music that entertains and inspires people around the globe.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 1995, as "Classical Music Month." I call upon government officials, educators, community organizations, and all the people of the United States to observe this month with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities paying tribute to the extraordinary diversity and artistry of classical music.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twentieth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON