By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
In remembering the nightmare we now know as World War II, it is natural and fitting that we pause to mourn our loss. Eleven million service members—more than 400,000 of them American—perished in that war. Countless more civilians died in its awful course. We Americans retain a special bond to all of these heroes. We've seen pictures of their faces and told stories of their courage. For when the darkest days of fear seemed to tear our world apart, the brave millions we now honor kept liberty alive.
As the forces of oppression sought to extinguish freedom's light, Americans from every walk of life heard the call to service. Women joined our Nation's factories, and farmers doubled their efforts in our fields. Victory gardens flourished across the land, and although the rationing of goods made our dinners less than feasts, the sharing of a cause filled our hearts with hope. Hand in hand, our parents and grandparents led our Nation on to victory, and together with our allies, we prevailed.
Like the men and women who fought half a century ago, Americans today are just as bound to defend the cause of freedom. Now as then, we are privileged to see the triumph of democracy in nations too long oppressed. Now as then, we know that service is our highest call. And still today, we pray for lasting peace.
May the spirit of those prayers forever grace our land. May they guide relations between citizens and friendships among nations. May our children remember our cause well, and may they one day see a time when harmony fills the Earth.
The Congress, by Public Law 103-291, has designated May 29, 1995, through June 6, 1995, as a "Time for the National Observance of the Fiftieth Anniversary of World War II."
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim May 29, 1995, through June 6, 1995, as a Time for the National Observance of the Fiftieth Anniversary of World War II. I call upon all Americans to celebrate these days with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-sixth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON