By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment. There is established the President's Council on Counter-Narcotics ("Council").
Sec. 2. Membership. The Council shall comprise the:
(a) President, who shall serve as Chairman of the Council;
(b) Vice President;
(c) Secretary of State;
(d) Secretary of the Treasury;
(e) Secretary of Defense;
(f) Attorney General;
(g) Secretary of Transportation;
(h) Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations;
(i) Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
(j) Chief of Staff to the President;
(k) Director of National Drug Control Policy;
(l) Director of Central Intelligence;
(m) Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
(n) Counsel to the President;
(o) Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff; and
(p) National Security Advisor for the Vice President.
As applicable, the Council shall also comprise the Secretary of Health and Human Services; the Secretary of Education; and the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy and such other officials of the departments and agencies as the President may, from time to time, designate.
Sec. 3. Meetings of the Council. The President, or upon his direction, the Vice President, may convene meetings of the Council. The President shall preside over meetings of the Council, provided that in his absence, the Vice President will preside. The Council will meet at least quarterly.
Sec. 4. Functions. (a) The functions of the Council are to advise and assist the President in: (1) providing direction and oversight for the national drug control strategy, including relating drug control policy to other national security interests and establishing priorities; and (2) ensuring coordination among departments and agencies concerning implementation of the President's national drug control strategy.
(b) The Director of National Drug Control Policy will continue to be the senior drug control policy official in the executive branch and the President's chief drug control policy spokesman.
(c) In matters affecting national security interests, the Director of National Drug Control Policy shall work in conjunction with the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
Sec. 5. Administration. (a) The Council may utilize established or ad hoc committees, task forces, or interagency groups chaired by the Director of National Drug Control Policy or his representative, in carrying out its functions under this order.
(b) The staff of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, in coordination with the staffs of the Vice President and the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, shall act as staff for the Council.
(c) All executive departments and agencies shall cooperate with the Council and provide such assistance, information, and advice as the Council may request, to the extent permitted by law.
William J. Clinton
The White House,
March 15, 1996.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:06 a.m., March 18, 1996]