By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
America owes a debt of gratitude to the fathers that help our Nation's children grow up safe and happy. Providing a wellspring of love for their families to draw upon, these men strengthen our communities and enable their daughters and sons to master life's lessons with confidence. They share with us their experiences and energies, creating the strong foundation on which our children build their lives. A father's arm is there to protect and steer—whether cradling a newborn baby, steadying the rider of a first two-wheeler, or walking his child down the aisle.
Fatherhood provides one of life's most profound joys and one of its most solemn responsibilities. Everyone who has been blessed by a father's love knows the abiding respect it inspires and the self-esteem that can grow from a dad's affectionate guidance.
We must do all we can to encourage fathers as they strive to provide the fundamental emotional and economic support that helps ensure their families' well-being. Programs like the Fatherhood Initiative, the Responsible Fatherhood Project, and Parent's Fair Share work to support American fathers, emphasize their role as mentors and providers, and advocate their involvement in their children's health and education.
On this Father's Day and throughout the year, let us thank fathers for their sacrifices and struggles and celebrate the special care they give their loved ones every day. With grateful words and actions, we honor all those who have embraced fatherhood's unique rewards.
Now Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, in accordance with a joint resolution of the Congress approved April 24, 1972 (36 U.S.C. 142a), do hereby proclaim Sunday, June 16, 1996, as Father's Day. I invite the States, communities, and all the citizens of the United States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities that demonstrate our deep appreciation and affection for our fathers.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twentieth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON