By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to advance United States foreign policy and protect the national and economic security of the United States through strengthened and coordinated enforcement of United States export control laws and enhanced intelligence exchange in support of such enforcement efforts, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1.
 
Policy. 
Export controls are critical to achieving our national security and foreign policy goals. To enhance our enforcement efforts and minimize enforcement conflicts, executive departments and agencies must coordinate their efforts to detect, prevent, disrupt, investigate, and prosecute violations of U.S. export control laws, and must share intelligence and law enforcement information related to these efforts to the maximum extent possible, consistent with national security and applicable law. 
Sec. 2.
 
Establishment. 
(a) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall establish, within the Department of Homeland Security for administrative purposes, an interagency Federal Export Enforcement Coordination Center (Center). 
(b) The Center shall coordinate on matters relating to export enforcement among the following: 
(i) the Department of State; 
(ii) the Department of the Treasury; 
(iii) the Department of Defense; 
(iv) the Department of Justice; 
(v) the Department of Commerce; 
(vi) the Department of Energy; 
(vii) the Department of Homeland Security; 
(viii) the Office of the Director of National Intelligence; and 
(ix) other executive branch departments, agencies, or offices as the President, from time to time, may designate. 
(c) The Center shall have a Director, who shall be a full-time senior officer or employee of the Department of Homeland Security, designated by the Secretary of Homeland Security. The Center shall have two Deputy Directors, who shall be full-time senior officers or employees of the Department of Commerce and the Department of Justice, designated by the Secretary of Commerce and the Attorney General, respectively, detailed to the Center and reporting to the Director. The Center shall also have an Intelligence Community Liaison, who shall be a full-time senior officer or employee of the Federal Government, designated by the Director of National Intelligence, and detailed or assigned to the Center. 
(d) The Center shall have a full-time staff reporting to the Director. To the extent permitted by law, executive departments and agencies enumerated in subsection (b) of this section are encouraged to detail or assign their employees to the Center without reimbursement. 
Sec. 3.
 
Functions. 
The Center shall: 
(a) serve as the primary forum within the Federal Government for executive departments and agencies to coordinate and enhance their export control enforcement efforts and identify and resolve conflicts that have not been otherwise resolved in criminal and administrative investigations and actions involving violations of U.S. export control laws; 
(b) serve as a conduit between Federal law enforcement agencies and the U.S. Intelligence Community for the exchange of information related to potential U.S. export control violations; 
(c) serve as a primary point of contact between enforcement authorities and agencies engaged in export licensing; 
(d) coordinate law enforcement public outreach activities related to U.S. export controls; and 
(e) establish Government-wide statistical tracking capabilities for U.S. criminal and administrative export control enforcement activities, to be conducted by the Department of Homeland Security with information provided by and shared with all relevant departments and agencies participating in the Center. 
Sec. 4.
 
Administration. 
(a) The Department of Homeland Security shall operate and provide funding and administrative support for the Center to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations. 
(b) The Director of the Center shall convene and preside at the Center's meetings, determine its agenda, direct the work of the Center, and, as appropriate to particular subject matters, organize and coordinate subgroups of the Center's members. 
Sec. 5.
 
General Provisions. 
(a) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. 
(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: 
(i) authority granted by law, regulation, Executive Order, or Presidential Directive to an executive department, agency, or head thereof; or 
(ii) functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. 
(c) Nothing in this order shall be construed to provide exclusive or primary investigative authority to any agency. Agencies shall continue to investigate criminal and administrative export violations consistent with their existing authorities, jointly or separately, with coordination through the Center to enhance enforcement efforts and minimize potential for conflict. 
(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. 
BARACK OBAMA 
The White House, 
November 9, 2010.