By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
Section 1
. 
Revision
. (a) The National Credit Union Administration Board has caused to be made, and has recommended approval of, a new seal of office for the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA), the design of which accompanies and is hereby made a part of this order, and which is described as follows: 
(i) The eagle overlaid by the shield conveys the NCUA's role as an agency of the Federal Government. The text, "NCUA," in white on a blue background on the crest of the shield is the core of the sign that federally insured credit unions are required to display. 
(ii) The three stars above the eagle represent the NCUA's three-member Board, appointed by the President of the United States by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. 
(iii) The oak branch the eagle is holding in its left talon symbolizes the NCUA's strength, honor, and longevity in carrying out its mission of promoting confidence in the national system of cooperative credit. 
(iv) The olive branch the eagle is holding in its right talon symbolizes the peace and prosperity facilitated by the economic growth and access to affordable financial services that the Nation's credit unions have long provided to millions of Americans. 
(v) The upper portion of the circle that forms the border of the seal sets forth the agency's title, "National Credit Union Administration." The date "1934" in the lower portion of the circle reflects the creation of the Federal credit union system by the Congress in 1934 and the long unbroken line of Federal credit union regulation that evolved into the NCUA. 
(b) This seal is of suitable design and appropriate for adoption as the official seal of the NCUA. 
(c) I hereby approve this seal as the official seal of the NCUA. 
Sec. 2
. 
Revocation
. Executive Order 11580 of January 20, 1971 (Establishing a Seal for the National Credit Union Administration), as amended, is hereby revoked. 
Sec. 3
. 
General Provisions
. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: 
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or 
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. 
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. 
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. 
DONALD J. TRUMP 
The White House, 
December 8, 2017.