By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas on June 21, 1890, the President of the United States by proclamation reserved certain lands in Juneau and Douglas City, Fort Wrangell and Sitka, in the Territory of Alaska, for public buildings, barracks, parade grounds, parks, wharves, coaling stations, etc., which are fully set forth and particularly described in said proclamation; and
Whereas a treaty of cession was exchanged and proclaimed on June 20, 1867, whereby the Russian Empire ceded to the United States the Territory of Alaska; and
Whereas said treaty, by Article II, provided,
 inter alia
 , that--
It is, however, understood and agreed that the churches which have been built in the ceded territory by the Russian Government shall remain the property of such, members of the Greek Oriental Church resident in the territory as may choose to worship therein.
And whereas there were included among the lands hereinbefore referred to as reserved on June 22, 1890, certain lands in and about the town of Sitka, in said Territory of Alaska, which are claimed by the Holy Orthodox Catholic Apostolic Oriental Church, commonly styled the Greco-Russian Church, and described in the said treaty as the Greek Oriental Church:
Now, therefore, I, Grover Cleveland, President of the United States, by virtue of the authority in me vested, do hereby declare, proclaim, and make known that the Executive order of June 22, 1890, making said reservations of lands in the Territory of Alaska, therein particularly described, is hereby modified, and said reservations are diminished so that the following property, described in Inventory B attached to and referred to in the protocol of transfer signed by the representatives of Russia and the United States on October 26, 1867, and being in and about the town of Sitka aforesaid, be excluded therefrom, to wit:
The Cathedral Church of St. Michael, built of timber, situated in the center of the city.
The Church of Resurrection, of timber, commonly called the Kalochian Church, situated near the battery number at the palisade separating the city from the Indian village.
102. A double-storied timber building for bishop house, with outbuildings, appurtenances, and grounds.
35. A timber house for church warden.
98. A timber house for the deacon.
104
105 Three timber houses, with their appurtenances and outbuildings, for lodging of priests.
114
F
G Four lots of ground belonging to the parsonages.
H
I
a The place commemorative of the old church.
b A tomb.
Three cemeteries, two outside palisades and one by the Church of the Resurrection.
In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the city of Washington, this 14th day of November, in the year 1896, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-first.
GROVER CLEVELAND.
By the President:
RICHARD OLNEY,
 Secretary of State
 .