By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas,
 since the issuance of Proclamation of September 28, 1914, which provided for the opening under conditions therein named of certain lands within the ceded portion of the Crow Indian Reservation, in Montana, not withdrawn under the Reclamation Act, lands within the Reservation so withdrawn have been released from withdrawal; 
And Whereas,
 other lands within the reservation now withdrawn under the Reclamation Act may hereafter be released from withdrawal; 
Now, Therefore, I, Woodrow Wilson,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the power and authority vested in me by the Act of Congress approved April 27, 1904 (33 Stat., 352), do hereby proclaim and direct that lands which were, at the time of the issuance of the said Proclamation, or are now, withdrawn under the Reclamation Act, and which have been heretofore or are hereafter released from such withdrawal, shall be opened to settlement, entry and disposition under the general provisions of the homestead, townsite and mineral land laws of the United States and the said Act of Congress, and become subject to settlement and entry on dates which shall be fixed by the Secretary of the Interior. 
Persons who make homestead entry for any lands opened hereunder will be required to pay four dollars per acre therefor. One dollar per acre shall be required at the time of entry. The balance may be paid in four equal, annual payments, the first to be paid at the end of the second year, unless commutation proof is submitted. If commutation proof is made, final payment must be made at that time. If three year proof is submitted, final payment may be made then or at any time thereafter before the payments become due in the annual installments. Neither final certificate not patent will issue under a three-year proof until final payment of purchase money has been made.  
Upon all entries made under the homestead laws, the usual fee and commissions shall be paid, as provided for in said laws on lands the price of which is one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre. 
In case any entryman fails to make the payments herein provided for, or any of them, promptly when due, all rights in and to the lands covered by his entry shall be forfeited, and the entry shall be held for cancellation and canceled, and the land embraced therein shall thereupon be subject to entry at the price and upon the terms herein named. 
Lands entered under the townsite and mineral land laws shall be paid for in amount and manner as provided by said laws, but in no case at a less price than that fixed for such lands if entered under the homestead laws. 
The Secretary of the Interior shall prescribe all needful rules and regulations necessary to carry the provisions hereof into full force and effect. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. 
Done
 at the City of Washington this nineteenth day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and fifteen and of the independence of the United States the one hundredth and fortieth. 
WOODROW WILSON 
By the President: 
ROBERT LANSING, 
Secretary of State.