By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas,
 the act of Congress authorizing the disposal of lands within the former Devils Lake Indian Reservation, North Dakota, approved April 27, 1904 (33 Stat., 319), among other things provides: 
That, when in the judgment of the President no more of the land herein ceded can be disposed of at said price, he may by proclamation, to be repeated at his discretion, sell from time to time the remaining lands subject to the provisions of the homestead law or otherwise as he may deem most advantageous, at such price or prices, in such manner, upon such conditions, with such restrictions, and upon such terms as he may deem best for all interests concerned: 
And Whereas,
 in my judgment no more of the land can be disposed of at said price, and it being believed that the remaining lands can be most advantageously disposed of in the following manner; 
Now, Therefore, I, Calvin Coolidge, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the aforesaid act of Congress, do hereby prescribe, proclaim and direct that all the land ceded by the said act not embraced in any valid existing right initiated under the public land laws, shall be offered for sale under the supervision of the Register and Receiver of the Bismarck, North Dakota, Land Office to the highest bidder for cash at not less than $1.25 per acre. The sale will be held at Bismarck, North Dakota, commencing October 14, 1924. 
The successful bidder for each tract must pay the purchase price thereof to the Receiver before 4:30 o'clock p.m. on the next day following the date of sale on which the land office is open. Bids may be made either in person or by agent, but will not be considered if received through the mail. No showing will be required of purchasers as to age, citizenship or otherwise. 
All persons are warned against entering into any agreement, combination or conspiracy which will prevent any of said lands from selling advantageously, and all persons so offending will be prosecuted criminally under Section 59 of the Criminal Code, which reads: 
Whoever, before or at the time of the public sale of any of the lands of the United States, shall bargain, contract, or agree, or attempt to bargain, contract, or agree with any other person, that the last-named person shall not bid upon or purchase the land so offered for sale, or any parcel thereof; or whoever by intimidation, combination, or unfair management shall hinder or prevent or attempt to hinder or prevent, any person from bidding upon or purchasing any tract of land so offered for sale, shall be fined not more than one thousand dollars, or imprisoned not more than two years, or both. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. 
Done
 at the city of Washington, this 29th day of August in the year of our Lord Nineteen Hundred and Twenty-four and of the Independence of the United States, the One Hundred and Forty-ninth. 
CALVIN COOLIDGE 
By the President: 
CHARLES E. HUGHES 
Secretary of State.