By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
The nation's constantly increasing fire waste is cause for general concern and consideration. In 1905 the total loss of property due to fire was $165,000,000. In 1915 it was $172,000,000, and in 1925 had increased to more than $570,000,000. In addition, thousands of lives are sacrificed each year through fires, a large majority of which are preventable. The conservation of man power and material wealth from such destruction is a challenge to the progress of our civilization. It demands the attention of every citizen.
The effect of fire waste is national, but it is only by concerted efforts in our cities, towns, hamlets and on our farms that a reduction may be achieved. To the federal government this matter is of grave concern, but we must rely on the cumulative contributions of communities throughout the land to make fire prevention an actuality. While efforts should be made constantly to reduce fire destruction to a minimum, in pursuance of a well established precedent, one week is set aside each year during which the urgent need of preventing fires is forcibly stressed. This may well be the starting point for a continuous fire prevention program extending over the entire country. Unquestionably this is a most important means of attacking fire waste, and
Therefore, I, Calvin Coolidge,
 President of the United States, recommend that the week beginning Sunday, October 3, be observed through the country as Fire Prevention Week. To state and municipal officials, civic and commercial organizations, school authorities, the clergy and the press I especially appeal in order that there may be a full degree of cooperation. Farmers and others living in rural districts, who are said to have suffered a fire loss of $150,000,000 in the past year, are particularly requested to join in this movement. If every individual will adopt and practice the simple precautionary measures advocated as fire prevention safeguards, fire hazards and their consequences will be materially reduced.
In witness whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this 21st day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and twenty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and fifty-first.
CALVIN COOLIDGE
By the President:
FRANK B. KELLOGG, 
Secretary of State
.