By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 each year preventable fires claim the lives of thousands of the men, women, and children of this Nation and cause permanent disability to many thousands more; and 
Whereas
 the destruction by fire of our natural and created resources has increased so alarmingly throughout the years that it threatens to cost our people three quarters of a billion dollars in the year 1948; and
Whereas
 this problem, with its social and economic implications for the future of our Nation, demands the active interest of every citizen; and
Whereas
, following the recommendations emanating from the President's Conference on Fire Prevention, held at Washington in May 1947, most of our States and many of our municipalities have organized and established facilities for more effective protection against this devastation:
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week beginning October 3, 1948, as Fire Prevention Week.
I earnestly request that, as a Nation and as individual citizens, we dedicate ourselves during that week to waging a year-round campaign against the menace of fire. I invite the state and local governments, the Chamber of Commerce of the United States, the National Fire Waste Council, the American National Red Cross, business and labor organizations, churches and schools, civic groups, and agencies of the press, the radio, and the motion-picture industry to cooperate fully in the observance of Fire Prevention Week. I also direct the appropriate agencies of the Federal Government to assist in every feasible way in making the public aware of the grave need for concerted fire-prevention activities.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this fifth day of August in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-third. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
G. C. MARSHALL,
Secretary of State.