By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 it appears that certain islets and rocks situated near Anacapa and Santa Barbara Islands, which for the most part form the Channel Islands National Monument, established by Proclamation No. 2281 of April 26, 1938 (52 Stat. 1541), are required for the proper care, management, and protection of the objects of geological and scientific interest located on lands within the said monument; and 
Whereas
 it appears that it would be in the public interest to extend the boundaries of the said monument to include the hereinafter-described areas adjacent to the said islands:
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 2 of the act of June 8, 1906, 34 Stat. 225 (16 U.S.C. 431), do proclaim that, subject to valid existing rights, the areas within one nautical
Mile of the shoreline of Anacapa and Santa Barbara Islands, as indicated on the diagram hereto attached and forming a part hereof, are withdrawn from all forms of appropriation under the public-land laws and added to and reserved as part of the Channel Islands National Monument.
The reservation made by this proclamation shall not affect the lands included in existing reservations for lighthouse purposes, or the rights of ingress and egress appertaining thereto, as particularly described in the said proclamation No. 2281.
Warning is hereby expressly given to any unauthorized persons not to appropriate, injure, destroy, deface, or remove any feature of this monument and not to locate or settle upon any of the lands thereof.
The Director of the national Park Service, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, shall have the supervision, management, and control of this monument as provided in the act of Congress entitled "An act to establish a national Park Service, and for other purposes", approved August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1 and 2), and acts supplementary thereto or amendatory thereof.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this 9th day of February in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-third. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
DEAN ACHESON,
Secretary of State.