By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 certain lands adjacent to the Lava Beds National Monument in the State of California, established by Proclamation No. 1755 of November 21, 1925, contain cliffs with petroglyphic carvings from a prehistoric period; and
Whereas
 a large cinder cone, important to the geologic interpretation of the Lava Beds National Monument, is partially outside the present boundaries of the monument; and
Whereas
 it appears that the public interest would be promoted by adding the lands described in the preceding paragraphs to the Lava Beds National Monument in order to insure permanent protection to these prehistoric and geologic phenomena:
Now, Therefore, I, Harry S. Truman,
 President of the United States of America, under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 2 of the act of June 8, 1906, 34 Stat. 225 (16 U.S.C. 431), do proclaim that, subject to valid existing rights, the lands within the following-described areas in California owned by the United States are hereby added to and reserved as a part of the Lava Beds National Monument, and that the privately-owned lands within such areas shall become a part of such monument upon the acquisition of title thereto by the United States:
MOUNT DIABLO MERIDIAN
T. 46 N., R. 5 E.,
Sec. 3, lots 9, 10, and 32;
Sec. 10, lots 1, 2, 4, 11, 12, 20, and 21, and N ½ NW ¼ SE ¼.
T. 44 N., R. 4 E,
Sec. 6, N ½ of lot 1.
The areas described aggregate 211.13 acres.
The reservation made by this proclamation is not intended to prevent the use of the lands in T. 44 N., R. 4 E., for national-forest purposes for which they were reserved by the proclamation establishing the Shasta National Forest, and both reservations shall be effective on such lands, but the reservation for the national-monument purposes shall be the dominant reservation and any use of the lands which interferes with their preservation or protection as a part of the national monument is hereby forbidden.
Warning is hereby expressly given to all unauthorized persons not to appropriate, injure, destroy, deface, or remove any feature of this monument as hereby extended and not to settle upon any of the lands reserved as a part of this monument.
The Director of the National Park Service, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, shall have the supervision, management, and control of these lands as provided in the act of Congress entitled "An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes," approved August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535, 16 U.S.C. 1-3), and acts supplementary thereto or amendatory thereof.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done
 at the City of Washington this 27th day of April in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-one and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-fifth. 
HARRY S. TRUMAN
By the President:
DEAN ACHESON,
Secretary of State.