By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 certain lands of the public domain lie within the boundaries of the White Sands National Monument, New Mexico, but are not now a part of the monument; and
Whereas
 it appears that the public interest would be promoted by adding such lands to the said monument in order to preserve the white sands and other features of scenic, scientific, and educational interest located thereon:
Now, Therefore, I, Dwight D. Eisenhower
, President of the United States of America, under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 2 of the act of June 8, 1906, 34 Stat. 225 (16 U.S.C. 431), do proclaim that, subject to valid existing rights, the following-described lands in New Mexico are hereby added to and reserved as a part of White Sands National Monument:
NEW MEXICO PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN
T. 18 S., R. 8 E.,
Sec. 5, SW 1/4 NW 1/4 and NW 1/4 SW 1/4
Sec. 6, lots 1, 2, 6, and 7, S 1/2 NE 1/4, and E 1/2 SW 1/4.
The areas described aggregate 478.53 acres.
Public Land Order No. 833, of May 21, 1952, reserving the above-described lands, together with other lands in New Mexico, for the use of the Department of the Army for military purposes, is hereby revoked so far as it affects the above-described lands.
Warning is hereby expressly given to all unauthorized persons not to appropriate, injure, destroy, deface, or remove any feature of this monument as hereby enlarged and not to settle upon any of the lands reserved by this proclamation.
The Director of the National Park Service, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, shall have the supervision, management, and control of these lands as provided in the act of Congress entitled "An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes," approved August 25, 1916, 39 Stat. 535 (16 U.S.C. 1-3), and acts supplementary thereto or amendatory thereof.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this twenty-fourth day of June in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and seventy-seventh.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
By the President:
JOHN FOSTER DULLES,
Secretary of State