By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
, pursuant to section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 624), I issued proclamations limiting the quantities of certain articles which may be entered or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption, as follows:
Proclamation No. 3019 of June 8, 1953, with respect to certain dairy products and other commodities;
Proclamation No. 3025 of June 30, 1953, which amended Proclamation No. 3019;
Proclamation No. 3178 of April 15, 1957 with respect to certain butter substitutes including butter oil; and
Proclamation No. 3193 of August 7, 1957 with respect to certain articles containing 45 per centum or more of butterfat or of butterfat and other fats or oils; and
Whereas
 it now appears that those proclamations are unduly restrictive in certain respects and require modifications in the interest of simplification of enforcement; and
Whereas
 the required modifications would in no way alter the purposes of those proclamations:
Now, Therefore, I, Dwight D. Eisenhower
, President of the United States of America, do hereby find and declare that the entry or withdrawal from warehouse for consumption on and after August 17, 1957 of those articles included in Lists I and II (except peanuts) appended to and made a part of Proclamation No. 3019 of June 8, 1953, as amended, and those articles the importation of which is restricted by Proclamation No. 3178 of April 15, 1957, and Proclamation No. 3193 of August 7, 1957, under the conditions herein prescribed, will not render, or tend to render, ineffective or materially interfere with any program or operation of the Department of Agriculture, nor reduce substantially the amount of products processed in the United States from agricultural commodities with respect to which any such program or operation are being undertaken. Accordingly, I hereby proclaim that the provisions of Proclamation No. 3019, as amended, shall not apply to articles specified in Lists I and II thereof (except peanuts) and that the provisions of Proclamation No. 3178 and Proclamation No. 3193 shall not apply to articles restricted therein: Provided, that such articles are entered or withdrawn from warehouse for exhibition, display, or sampling at a Trade Fair or for research, and in any importation, the aggregate quantity of such articles does not exceed 100 pounds net: And provided, that the written approval of the Secretary of Agriculture or his designated representative is presented at the time of entry, or bond is furnished in a form prescribed by the Commissioner of Customs in an amount equal to the value of the merchandise as set forth in the entry plus the estimated duty as determined at the time of entry, conditioned upon the production of such written approval of the Secretary within six months from the date of entry.
Nothing in this Proclamation shall be deemed to modify the provisions of Proclamation No. 3025 of June 30, 1953.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this 17th day of August in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-second.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
By the President:
CHRISTIAN A. HERTER,
Acting Secretary of State