By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The time of harvest turns our thoughts once again to our national festival of Thanksgiving, and the bounties of nature remind us again of our dependence upon the generous hand of Providence.
In this sesquicentennial year of Abraham Lincoln’s birth, it is fitting and proper that we should use his words contained in the historic proclamation of 1863, establishing this annual observance, to express anew our gratitude for America’s "fruitful fields," for our national "strength and vigor," and for all our "singular deliverances and blessings."
The present year has been one of progress and heightened promise for the way of life to which we, the people, and the government of the United States of America, are dedicated. We rejoice in the productivity of farm and factory, but even more so in the prospect of improvement of relations among men and among nations. We earnestly hope that forbearance, understanding, and conciliation will hold increasing sway among us and among all peoples everywhere.
In the enjoyment of our good life, let us not forget the birthright by which we reap the fruits of life and labor in this fair land. Let us stand fast by the principles of our republic enunciated in word and deed by the statesmen, teachers, and prophets to whom we owe our beginnings. Let us be thankful that we have been spared the consequences of human frailty and error in our exercise of power and freedom. As a token of our gratitude for God’s gracious gift of abundance, let us share generously with those less fortunate than we at home and abroad. Let us at this season of thanksgiving perform deeds of thanksgiving; and, throughout the year, let us fulfill those obligations of citizenship and humanity which spring from grateful hearts.
Now, Therefore, I, Dwight D. Eisenhower,
 President of the United States of America, in consonance with the joint resolution of the Congress approved December 26, 1941, 55 Stat. 862 (5 U.S.C. 87b), designating the fourth Thursday of November in each year as Thanksgiving Day, do hereby proclaim Thursday, November 26, 1959, as a day of national thanksgiving. On that day let us gather in sanctuaries dedicated to worship and in homes devoted to family sharing and community service to express our gratitude for the inestimable blessings of God; and let us earnestly pray that He continue to guide and sustain us in the great unfinished task of achieving peace among men and nations.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington fifth day of November in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-fourth.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
By the President:
CHRISTIAN A. HERTER,
Secretary of State