By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 the first act of Congress authorizing "medals of honor" for Army personnel was approved by President Lincoln on July 12, 1862 (joint resolution of July 12, 1862, 12 Stat. 623); and 
Whereas
 the first "medals of honor" awarded Army personnel were presented by Secretary of War Stanton on March 25, 1863; and 
Whereas
 the awarding of the Medal of Honor, often called the "Congressional Medal of Honor," is generally recognized as the highest honor this Nation bestows upon a member of its armed forces for gallantry and intrepidity in combat above and beyond the can of duty, and such medals may be awarded to personnel of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Coast Guard; and 
Whereas
 it is appropriate that the centennial of the approval of the joint resolution of July 12, 1862, and the presentation of the first medals of honor to Army personnel on March 25, 1863, be celebrated to commemorate the significance and the proud history of the Medal of Honor: 
Now, Therefore, I, John F. Kennedy,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the period from July 12, 1962, to March 25, 1963, as the Medal of Honor Centennial, U.S. Army. 
I urge the people of the United States to commemorate the significance of the Medal of Honor during this centennial period; and I urge the Governors of the various States, other State and municipal officials, and the various civic and patriotic organizations to plan and conduct, in conjunction with local Army commanders, appropriate ceremonies for commemoration of the Medal of Honor during the centennial period. 
I direct the Secretary of the Army, acting under the direction of the Secretary of Defense, to insure that appropriate commemorative ceremonies of national interest are conducted in the Military District of Washington on July 12, 1962, and March 25, 1963. The Secretary of the Army will insure that commemorative ceremonies of local interest are conducted at other times during the centennial period at or in the vicinity of various Army commands. 
I also direct the Secretary of the Army, acting under the direction of the Secretary of Defense, to lend the greatest possible assistance to the various State Governors, other State and municipal officials, and civic and patriotic organizations to insure the success of their ceremonial undertakings m commemoration of the significance of the Medal of Honor. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this twelfth day of July in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-seventh. 
JOHN F. KENNEDY 
By the President: 
DEAN RUSK, 
Secretary of State