By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Whereas
 I have caused the Tariff Schedules of the United States to be published in the FEDERAL REGISTER in conformity with Section 101(d) of the Tariff Classification Act of 1962 (P.L. 87-456, 76 Stat. 72); 
Whereas
 I have taken such action as I deem necessary to bring the United States schedules annexed to foreign trade agreements into conformity with the Tariff Schedules of the United States as provided for in Section 102 of the Tariff Classification Act of 1962, as amended (P.L. 87-456, 76 Stat. 72, as amended by Section 257(8) of P.L. 87-794, 76 Stat. 882); and 
Whereas
 I have determined that the rates and provisions proclaimed in paragraph 1 of this proclamation are required or appropriate to carry out foreign trade agreements to which the United States is a party: 
Now, Therefore, I, John F. Kennedy,
 President of the United States of America, acting under the authority of the Constitution and statutes, including Section 102 of the Tariff Classification Act of 1962, as amended, do proclaim: 
1.     The rates of duty in column numbered 1 of Schedules 1 to 8, inclusive (except the rates for the items listed in Annex A which is attached and made a part of this proclamation), and the other provisions of the Tariff Schedules of the United States which relate thereto; 
2.     The temporary modifications set forth in Part 2 of the Appendix to the Tariff Schedules of the United States; 
3.     The additional import restrictions set forth in Part 3 of the Appendix to the Tariff Schedules of the United States; and 
4.     The nations or areas and countries set forth in general headnote 3 (d) of the Tariff Schedules of the United States (relating to the treatment of products of certain Communist-dominated nations or areas). 
The Tariff Schedules of the United States shall become effective as to articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after August 31, 1963. 
As to articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after August 31, 1963, the provisions of all prior proclamations which provide for customs treatment inconsistent with the Tariff Schedules of the United States are hereby superseded. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this twenty-first day of August in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-eighth. 
JOHN F. KENNEDY 
By the President: 
GEORGE W. BALL, 
Acting Secretary of State