By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
During the last year of World War II the Congress called for the first observance of National Employ the Physically Handicapped Week. It is a mark of our esteem for all humanity, and a testimonial of our faith in individual worth, that we have continued this purposeful observance in each succeeding year. 
The intervening years have seen our Nation enjoying an ever-expanding economy as we have moved swiftly toward the promise of an ever greater society. During this era the natural barriers of sound and space have been breached. Now, a host of new visions brighten our horizons, and a profusion of new forces are abroad in our midst. But there still remain for some of our people-the physically and mentally handicapped-employment barriers that have not yet been breached, horizons limited by prejudice, and discriminatory attitudes that have not yet been swept away. 
To set a satisfactory pace for our Nation's growth, we must commit ourselves to the challenge of full participation by all-the handicapped and able-bodied alike. It has been said that men differ less in capacity than in zeal and determination to utilize the powers they have. Time and again the handicapped have demonstrated determination in their struggle to overcome their limitations; their capacity to work being strengthened by their zeal to succeed. 
For nearly two decades we have encouraged our Nation's employers to give equal consideration to job-qualified handicapped persons. During the same period we have fostered a model policy with respect to the employment of the handicapped within the Federal Government. The quarter-million handicapped placements made yearly by public employment services is evidence that the message has been heard. But despite that notable achievement, real progress can be claimed only when the number of persons with physical or mental handicaps awaiting rehabilitation, vocational restoration, and return to a fully productive life is cut to an irreducible minimum. Accomplishment of that objective calls for concerted action by all our rehabilitation and placement agencies and by all other groups working for the vocational betterment of the handicapped. 
Our hopes for the handicapped can be realized if the employers of this Nation will but consider all job applicants, regardless of handicaps, solely on the basis of their qualifications to do the job. 
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, in consonance with the Joint Resolution of Congress approved August 11, 1945 (59 Stat. 530), designating the first week of October of each year as National Employ the Physically Handicapped Week, do hereby call upon the people of our Nation to observe the week beginning October 4, 1964, for such purpose. 
During that week I urge all the Governors of States, mayors of cities, and other public officials, as well as leaders of industry, educational and religious groups, labor, civic, veterans', agricultural, women's, scientific, professional, and fraternal organizations, and all other interested organizations and individuals, including the handicapped themselves, to participate in this, the 20th annual observance. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this fourth day of September in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-ninth. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON 
By the President: 
DEAN RUSK, 
Secretary of State.