By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Our national policy is directed toward the attainment of world peace, and our resources are committed to the task of securing and maintaining peace among the nations of the world. In recognition of this, the Congress has designated the eleventh of November as a legal holiday to be known as Veterans Day and has dedicated it to the cause of world peace (Act of May 13, 1938, 52 Stat. 351, as amended (5 U.S.C. 87a)). 
As we honor on this day the millions of men and women who have honorably and devotedly served in our armed forces in time of war, we should also demonstrate our continued dedication to the attainment of world peace, giving outward evidence of our determination to seek the blessings of peace for all people. This we can do by participating in public ceremonies on that day. 
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, call upon the people of this Nation to observe Wednesday, November 11, 1964, as Veterans Day, remembering with respect and affection those who have defended this Nation in time of war and rededicating ourselves to the cause of world peace. 
I request the officials of the Federal and State Governments to associate themselves with the Veterans Day National Committee in order that people in all parts of our country may have an opportunity on that day to participate personally in public ceremonies and exercises. 
I also direct the appropriate officials of the Government to arrange for the display of the flag of the United States on all public buildings on Veterans Day. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
Done at the City of Washington this thirtieth day of September in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-ninth. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON 
By the President: 
DEAN RUSK, 
Secretary of State.