By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
August 10, 1964, marks the ninetieth anniversary of the birth of the Honorable Herbert Hoover-the thirty-first President of the United States. 
For more than half a century this distinguished citizen has devoted his time, his talents, and his energies to public service. 
His leadership in relief and reconstruction programs following the two World Wars resulted in saving the lives of millions of suffering victims of those wars. 
As cabinet member and as President, he served his country with devotion and distinction. His wise counsel has since been sought by the Government on many occasions and, particularly in his service as Chairman of two Commissions on Organization of the Executive Branch, he has made lasting contributions to the efficiency and economy of governmental operations. 
It is appropriate that on the anniversary of the birth of this statesman and humanitarian we pause to express our gratitude for his dedicated service to our country and to the world. 
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America., in consonance with the joint resolution of Congress approved August 6, 1964, do hereby officially recognize and proclaim the ninetieth birthday of the Honorable Herbert Hoover, August 10, 1964, and I urge the people of the United States to pause on that day to reflect upon the many accomplishments of this distinguished American on behalf of all humanity. Finally, in highest tribute to this remarkable citizen and humanitarian, I urge the youth of America to emulate the patriotism, integrity, and high ideals that have marked his career. 
In accordance with section 3 of the joint resolution, I direct that the American flag be flown over the White House on August 10, 1964, in special recognition of the former President's ninetieth birthday, and that it then be presented to him as an expression of our love and respect for him. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this sixth day of August in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and eighty-ninth. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON 
By the President: 
DEAN RUSK, 
Secretary of State.