By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
For one hundred and seventy-nine years the Constitution of the United States has symbolized the right of people to govern themselves. 
Our Constitution, upon which our government is based, did not spring forth in a single moment of inspiration. Rather, it was the culmination of man's long struggle for freedom, justice, equality, and recognition of the dignity of man. It reflects the wisdom of the Old and New Testaments, the democratic principles of ancient Greece, the justness of the Roman law, the concept of constitutional liberty as guaranteed to Englishmen by the Magna Charta, and the dedication that caused our Founding Fathers to forsake the security of civilization to seek liberty, justice, and opportunity in the wilderness of the New World. 
The Constitution and its ideals of justice, liberty, and opportunity for all, must be constantly cherished and nurtured. In this ever-shrinking world, it is important that every American understand our system of Government, cherish the fundamentals of freedom, and be always ready to defend our heritage for which so many have given so much. We must all rededitate ourselves, in every generation, to the great ideals that inspired the formation and adoption of our Constitution as the charter of a free people. 
To assure appropriate commemoration of the formation and signing, on September 17, 1787, of the Constitution and to pay special recognition to all persons who, by coming of age or by naturalization, shall have attained the status of citizenship during each year, the Congress enacted the Joint Resolution of February 29, 1952 (66 Stat. 9), designating September 17 of each year as "Citizenship Day." Later, the Congress enacted the Joint Resolution of August 2, 1956 (70 Stat. 932), requesting the President to designate the week beginning September 17 of each year as "Constitution Week." 
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, call upon the appropriate officials of the Government to display the flag of the United States on all Government buildings on Citizenship Day, September 17, 1966; and I urge Federal, State, and local officials, as well as all religious, civic, educational, and other organizations, to hold appropriate ceremonies on that day to inspire all our citizens to pledge themselves anew to the service of their country and to the support and defense of the Constitution. 
I also designate the period beginning September 17 and ending September 23, 1966, as Constitution Week; and I urge the people of the United States to observe that week with appropriate ceremonies and activities in their schools and churches and in other suitable places to the end that our citizens may have a better understanding of the Constitution and of the rights and responsibilities of United States Citizenship. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed. 
DONE at the City of Washington this sixteenth day of June in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninetieth. 
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
By the President: 
DEAN RUSK 
Secretary of State