By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
Leif Erikson, one of the great leaders of the heroic age of Nordic exploration, is a source of special inspiration to millions of Americans of Scandinavian descent. The Viking explorers of a thousand years ago left us an example of courage and daring that will never be forgotten. Their far-reaching voyages across frigid northern seas in small boats, guided by crude and primitive instruments of navigation, are a lasting testament to what man's bravery and determination can achieve.
Those ancient Nordic virtues are also part of our American heritage. For it was largely men and women of Norwegian, Swedish and Danish birth or descent who first broke through the tough sod of the American plains and brought agricultural abundance to the American prairies. Citizens bearing such names as Anderson, Magnuson, Lindburg, Ericsson, Dahlgren, and Jackson are to be found among our greatest statesmen, soldiers, teachers, and scientists. They have enriched every aspect of our national life. All of them were in some degree inspired to their personal achievements by the example of the great Nordic hero, Leif Erikson.
It was for these reasons that the Congress of the United States, by a joint resolution approved September 2, 1964 (78 Stat. 849), authorized the President to proclaim October 9 in each year as Leif Erickson Day. I am happy and pleased to honor that request.
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate Sunday, October 9, 1966, as Leif Erikson Day; and I direct the appropriate Government officials to display the flag of the United States on all Government buildings on that day.
I also invite the people of the United States to honor the memory of Leif Erikson on that day by holding appropriate exercises and ceremonies in schools and churches, or other suitable places.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this sixteenth day of September in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-first.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
By the President:
DEAN RUSK
Secretary of State