By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
On June 14, 1777, our young nation created a symbol of her newly declared freedom. That day, in Philadelphia, the Continental Congress resolved "That the flag of the thirteen United States be thirteen stripes, alternate red and white, that the union be thirteen stars, white in a blue field, representing a new constellation.
Then, this flag was only colored cloth. But the beliefs and achievements of the people who pledged it allegiance quickly endowed our national banner with the proud meaning it has today.
This is the flag that gave words to our anthem, that beckoned generations of immigrants to our shores, that gave safe escort to our commerce, and protection to Americans abroad.
This is the flag that crossed the oceans in defense of freedom, that waved in the smoke above Corregidor, that was pushed aloft on Iwo Jima, that cheered the liberated peoples of Europe. This is the flag that has covered the remains of those who died in freedom's cause.
This flag has earned the salute of the soldier and the respect of our citizens.
So that this may be done, 
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States, do hereby designate the week beginning June 11, 1967, as National Flag Week.
I direct the appropriate Government officials to display the flag on all Government buildings during that week. And on Flag Day, June 14—the 190th anniversary of the action of the Continental Congress I urge every American to fly the flag.
Fly it from your home, and from your place of business. And fly it in your heart. Let us teach our children of its meaning by our proud and reverent example. Let every American show how this "new constellation"—now of half a hundred stars—continues to guide and inspire the way of a free and dauntless people.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this tenth day of June in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-first.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
By the President: 
DEAN RUSK 
Secretary of State