By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
This year nearly 20 million children—more than ever before—will be served low-cost or free lunches under the National School Lunch Program. More than 71,000 elementary and secondary schools take part in the program.
Now in its twenty-first year, the Program remains an effective example of how Federal,. State and local agencies can work together for the health and well-being of the Nation's children.
Over the past several years we have invested more than $1 billion to bring school lunch and nutritional programs to the children of our cities.
The Program also makes good use of America's food abundance, helping to convert farm products into meals for children, many of whom might otherwise have gone hungry.
This year, in addition, about 100,000 children in selected schools will be served breakfast in school under a pilot program authorized by the Child Nutrition Act of 1966.
There are still 9 million children attending schools which have no school lunch program. That number includes one million poor children who should be receiving lunch at little or no cost. Thus, while deserved recognition is being given our progress, we cannot be wholly satisfied until these needy young people are also being assisted.
In recognition of the value and achievements of the School Lunch Program, the Congress by a joint resolution of October 9, 1962 (76 Stat. 779), has designated the seven-day period beginning on the second Sunday of October in each year as National School Lunch Week, and has requested the President to issue annually a proclamation calling for the observance of that week.
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, call upon the people of the United States to observe the week beginning October 8, 1967, as National School Lunch Week, with ceremonies and activities designed to increase public understanding and awareness of the significance of the National School Lunch Program to the child, to the home, to the farm, to industry, and to the Nation.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of August in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-second.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON