By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
America's unusual health-care system, in which private and public agencies and organizations work together in common cause, has been a principal factor in insuring and improving the Nation's health. This system has evolved over many years, changing and adapting to advances in research and technology and to a growing national commitment to good health for all.
Though a great deal remains to be done if that commitment is to be honored—especially among poor families—we have seen almost revolutionary progress in providing better health to most Americans during the past few years:
—The death rate among babies in their first year of life reached a new low of 22 deaths for every 1,000 live births last year—down 15 percent from 1960.
—Boys and girls grow up today largely free from the threat of polio, measles, and other potentially crippling diseases of childhood.
—One of every three cancer patients is saved today. —Twenty million older Americans are protected by Medicare; 8 million have already received hospital benefits from this program.
In the evolution of our health services system, there has remained one constant—the family physician. Today, as a century ago, he bears a unique responsibility. He continues to be the source of treatment and comfort when illness and accidents occur. He is also the crucial link today between the family and the highly specialized services of modern health science.
To further focus national attention upon the accomplishments of our health care system and the central role played by the family physician in the maintenance of superior medical care for all Americans, the Congress by House Joint Resolution 1404 has requested the President to issue a proclamation designating the week of November 17 through 23, 1968, as National Family Health Week.
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning November 17, 1968, as National Family Health Week. I call upon the people of the United States, the medical and health professions, and other interested organizations and groups to observe that week with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this third day of October, in the year of our. Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-third.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON