By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
Economic and social progress bears a direct relationship to the establishment and maintenance of orderly societies and a world community of peaceful nations. Thus, laws which advance economic and social development can bring about essential progress in securing freedom for all men in all nations.
Governments are rightfully concerned about the economic and social progress of people, but much can be done on a private and voluntary basis to supplement government plans and actions. Public programs, embodied in just laws at the local, national, and international levels, can advance the improvement of social and economic conditions in every community and country. Voluntary cooperation of private individuals and groups can help to bring about research, new proposals, and citizen participation which will provide essential public support for enactment of just and needed laws.
The concern and participation of the legal, professional, academic, commercial, and other sectors of the private community in the attack on the root problems of discontent—such as poverty, ignorance, and disease—are vital to the national and international welfare. Fundamentally, it is the human misery and unrest under these conditions which most directly affect man's ability to develop a peaceful and orderly world community. It is essential, therefore, that the public and private sectors of every community join together in cooperative endeavors to develop plans and programs to resolve basic social and economic needs within a framework of law on a local, national, and international basis.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim September 8, 1969, as World Law Day in the United States. I call upon public officials and private leaders, members of the legal profession, public and private organizations, and all men of goodwill to arrange public ceremonies on World Law Day in courts, schools, universities, and other public places in order that we may rededicate ourselves to the observance of international law and to the goals of social and economic progress, so essential to the preservation of world peace.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of August, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred sixty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-fourth.
RICHARD NIXON