By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
The first day of May has been set aside by the Congress of the United States as LAW DAY, U.S.A. It is a special day to be observed by the American people in appreciation of their liberties and national independence. It is an occasion for rededication to the ideals of equality and justice under law.
There was never a greater need for such rededication. Events of recent years—rising crime rates, urban rioting, and violent campus protests—have impeded rather than advanced social justice.
We must reverse the upward trend of lawlessness in our land. We must bring forward in America our faith in ourselves and in our country and its future. We must move forward to a new era of peace and progress in which our great resources can be utilized to end poverty and injustice and to achieve greater opportunities for all Americans.
Achievement of these goals does not depend upon the acts of government alone; it depends in substantial part upon the attitude and actions of each of us. We must recognize a clear duty to obey the laws, to respect the rights of others, to resolve controversies by lawful means, to become responsive and responsible citizens.
Unequal justice is no justice at all, unenforced laws are worse than no laws at all; that is why equal justice under law is the bedrock of the American system.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby urge the people of the United States to observe Thursday, May 1, 1969, as Law Day in the United States of America with appropriate public ceremonies and by the reaffirmation of their dedication to our form of government and the supremacy of law in our lives. I especially urge the legal profession, the schools and educational institutions, civic and service organizations, all media of public information, and the courts to take the lead in sponsoring and participating in appropriate observances throughout the Nation.
And, as requested by the Congress, I direct the appropriate Government officials to display the flag of the United States on all public buildings on that day.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-third.
RICHARD NIXON