By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
It has become a national tradition to designate the month of May each year as a time to give recognition to the older members of our population.
This year Senior Citizens Month will have a special significance. It will mark the launching of activity leading to a White House Conference on Aging in 1971.
For too long we have lacked a national policy and commitment to provide adequate services and opportunities for older people. I have called the 1971 White House Conference to develop just such a policy. My Special Assistant for the Aging, who will direct the Conference, will devote the preparatory year of 1970 to encouraging all older people to speak out regarding their needs. I want to know also how they see themselves helping to meet these needs, and how they believe they can contribute to raising the quality of life for all Americans.
In meeting the challenge of our rapidly changing society, older Americans have gained invaluable experience. We ask them to draw on this fund of knowledge to create a better and more enriching life in the later years.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the month of May 1970 as Senior Citizens Month. The theme for this month shall be OLDER AMERICANS SPEAK TO THE NATION—PROLOGUE TO THE 1971 WHITE HOUSE CONFERENCE ON AGING.
I urge the Governors of all the States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, officers of Federal, State, and local governments, voluntary organizations, and private groups to arrange during May for community forums or other appropriate meetings where older citizens may come together to express their views. And I urge all older Americans to take advantage of this opportunity in their home communities to make the first contribution toward a successful 1971 White House Conference on Aging.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-fourth.
RICHARD NIXON