By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
The United States has special reason to remember July 20, 1969, with pride, for it was on this date that two of our Apollo 11 astronauts, Neil A. Armstrong and Edwin E. Aldrin, Jr., landed on the moon. Armstrong's message, "The Eagle has landed," marked the achievement of what men had dreamed of over the centuries: to navigate through space and land on another celestial body. Soon after their landing at the Sea of Tranquility, both astronauts walked on the surface of the moon, placed an American flag on its soil, gathered samples of soil and rocks, and emplaced scientific recording equipment. Man's exploration of the moon had begun.
Since the historic flight of Apollo 11, American astronauts have extended man's exploration of the moon to the Ocean of Storms with Apollo 12 and the hills of Fra Mauro with Apollo 14, with rich scientific return. Next week, Apollo 15 is scheduled to head for another different region of the moon to explore the base of the 12,000-foot Apennine Mountains and the rim of the 1,300 foot canyon-like Hadley Rille. Thus, two years after the first landing on the moon, other brave men are following in the footsteps of Armstrong and Aldrin to explore the unknown and advance scientific knowledge for the benefit of all mankind.
To commemorate the anniversary of the first moon walk on July 20, 1969, and to accord recognition to the many achievements of the national space program, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 101, has requested that the President issue a proclamation designating July 20, 1971, as National Moon Walk Day.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon
, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate July 20, 1971, as National Moon Walk Day. I urge all Americans, and interested groups and organizations, to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies, activities, and programs designed to show their pride in this great national achievement.
In Witness Whereof
, I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and seventy-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-sixth.
RICHARD NIXON