By the President of the United States Of America
A Proclamation
 
Just five years ago, two Americans thrilled the world when they took man's first steps on the moon.
The heavens have intrigued and mystified man for all of recorded history. In that single journey five years ago, man's knowledge of our universe, diligently gathered over the centuries, resulted in a spectacular leap away from the earth.
That leap was more than a tribute to man: it was also a tribute to America, for it would never have been possible without a concerted, cooperative effort joining Government, industry and science. Organized and led by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and supported by our citizens, the Apollo program showed what America can do when our people agree on a goal and follow through to achieve it.
The knowledge to be gained from space will lead to scientific, technological, medical and industrial advances which cannot be fully perceived today. In time man may take for granted in the heavens such wonders as we cannot imagine—just as superhighways across America would amaze the Puritans of 1620 or transatlantic flights would astound those who passed on the legend of Icarus. But we know that a beginning has been made that will affect the course of human life forever.
It is entirely fitting that we should commemorate the beginnings of man's journey into his universe on the anniversary of that first landing on the moon by the men of Apollo 11.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the period July 16 through July 24, 1974, as United States Space Week and urge the people of the Nation to mark this period in ways that express their pride in the leading role our Nation has played in the exploration and use of space which can contribute so greatly to a better land and a better world.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-ninth.
RICHARD NIXON