By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Our intensive effort against cancer, sustained by the constant dedication and determination of scientists, physicians, public officials and private citizens, continues to provide hope and assistance to ever-increasing numbers of Americans. 
The National Cancer Act of 1971 was a landmark piece of legislation which authorized new Federal support for cancer research. The amendments of 1974 have added new emphasis to our National Cancer Program, especially in the dissemination of the latest scientific findings from the research laboratory and clinic to practicing physicians, cancer patients, and those in particular jeopardy of cancer. 
Despite this progress, the conquest of cancer will not be easy or quick. Cancer statistics remain depressing. An estimated 665,000 new cases will be diagnosed in 1975. Although we shall ultimately achieve victory over these killer diseases, it requires our unwavering support of cancer research and control. 
As a means of giving continued emphasis to the cancer problem, the Congress, by a joint resolution of March 28, 1938 (52 Stat. 148, 36 U.S.C. 150), requested the President to issue annually a proclamation setting aside the month of April as Cancer Control Month. 
Now, Therefore, I, Gerald R. Ford,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of April 1975 as Cancer Control Month, and I invite the Governors of the States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the appropriate officials of all other areas under the United States flag, to issue similar proclamations. 
To give renewed emphasis to this serious problem, and to encourage the determination of the American people to meet it, I also ask the medical and health professions, the communications media, and all other interested persons and groups to unite in public reaffirmation of our Nation's abiding commitment to control cancer. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 26th day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-ninth. 
GERALD R. FORD