By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The past twenty-five years have been marked by the unprecedented development of international law as nations have come to recognize that cooperation in international relations is the only alternative to chaos. This cooperation depends upon mutual respect, which in turn depends upon the development of legal norms upon which all parties can rely with confidence. These norms must be responsive to each nation's legitimate interests, must respect the feelings and beliefs of all peoples, and must foster a climate of justice and liberty in which each individual on this planet can achieve his or her full potential. 
Representatives of the legal profession from every corner of the globe will gather in Manila during the week of August 21, 1977, under the auspices of the World Peace Through Law Center, to inaugurate the Eighth World Conference on World Peace Through Law. Together they will search for ways to further universal human liberty and security. Celebrations devoted to international legal protections for human rights will be held not only in Manila, but in more than one hundred countries. Accordingly, it is fitting that the United States join in this effort to focus the world's attention on the pressing need for continued vigilance in protecting fundamental rights and freedoms for all. 
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate Sunday, August 21, 1977, as World Law Day in the United States. I call upon all public and private officials and organizations, members of the legal profession, the clergy, educators, the communications media, and all men and women of good will to join with the peoples of the world on this day in reflecting on the importance of the rule of law in achieving world peace as well as justice, freedom and dignity for all. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day of August, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER