By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Over the past half-century, we have made remarkable progress in the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of eye problems. Methods are available today that can restore vision or sharply reduce the risk of blindness that were unknown not long ago. Research conducted and supported by the National Eye Institute and many private organizations offers very real hope for finding ways to treat eye problems that are now beyond the reach of prevention or cure. 
Despite our advances, millions of Americans fail to take advantage of the sophisticated vision care services available to them. Many older Americans accept poor vision as part of growing old. Millions of middle-aged Americans regard admitting a need for vision care as admitting to a loss of youth. Young people often foolishly believe their good vision will remain without care. Children are sometimes assumed to have no vision problems because they can read an eye chart when in fact they may be unable to see the printed page. 
To remind all Americans of the importance of good vision and of ways to protect it, the Congress, by joint resolution approved December 30, 1963 (77 Stat. 629, 36 U.S.C. 169a), has requested the President to proclaim the first week in March of each year as Save Your Vision Week. 
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week beginning March 6, 1977 as Save Your Vision Week. I urge all Americans to mark this observance by learning how to take care of their eyes and availing themselves of professional eye care services. I call upon the vision care professions, the communications media, educators, and all public and private organizations which support sight conservation and vision research to join in activities to improve and protect the vision of all Americans. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and first.
JIMMY CARTER