By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Approximately 385,000 of our people will die this year of cancer, one of our greatest unsolved medical problems. The economic cost of cancer is high, but its toll in terms of human suffering is far higher. Recognizing that--and that our efforts to overcome cancer must be aggressive and sustained--the United States has committed itself to the conquest of cancer as a national goal. 
Our efforts have been rewarded. Every year we learn more about the causes of cancer, and about its prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and control. Our progress is largely due to the dedication of scientists and physicians throughout our Nation. But the fight against cancer also depends on the willingness of the American people to alter their eating, drinking, and smoking habits and to seek early and appropriate medical care. 
In order to encourage public dedication to our national commitment to the control of cancer, the Congress, by a joint resolution of March 28, 1938 (52 Stat. 148, 36 U.S.C. 150), requested the President to issue annually a proclamation designating April as Cancer Control Month. 
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of April, 1977, as Cancer Control Month, and I invite the Governors of the several States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Mayor of the District of Columbia, and the appropriate officials of all other areas subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to issue similar proclamations. 
I also urge the health and medical professions, educators, the communications media, and all other concerned individuals and organizations to join during this period of time in activities which are designed to impress upon the people of the Nation the importance of our continuing commitment to cancer control. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and first.
JIMMY CARTER