By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
September 17, 1978, will mark the 191st anniversary of the signing, in Independence Hall, Philadelphia, of the Constitution of the United States. That great document has endured, with but few changes, as the finest foundation of government in the history of mankind. 
By a joint resolution of February 29, 1952, (36 U.S.C. 153), Congress designated September 17 as Citizenship Day, in commemoration of the signing of the Constitution and in recognition of all who, by coming of age or by naturalization, have attained the status of citizenship; Congress also authorized the President to issue annually a proclamation calling upon officials of the Government to display the flag on all Government buildings on that day. By a joint resolution of August 2, 1956, (36 U.S.C. 159), Congress authorized the President to designate the period beginning September 17 and ending September 23 of each year as Constitution Week and to issue a proclamation calling for the observance of that week. 
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, call upon appropriate government officials to display the flag of the United States on all government buildings on Citizenship Day, September 17, 1978, the 191st anniversary of the signing of the Constitution. I urge Federal, State and local .officials, as well as leaders of civic, educational and religious organizations, to conduct suitable ceremonies and programs on that day. 
I also designate as Constitution Week the period beginning September 17 and ending September 23, 1978, and urge all Americans to observe that week with ceremonies and activities in their schools, churches and in other suitable places in order to foster a better understanding of the Constitution and of the rights and duties of United States citizens. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day of July in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-eight, and of the Independence of the United States the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER