By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
1. By Proclamation No. 4610 of November 30, 1978, I modified Headnote 3 of Subpart A, Part 10, Schedule 1 of the Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202, hereinafter referred to as "TSUS"). The proclamation was designed substantially to bring the United States into conformity with certain provisions of the International Sugar Agreement, 1977, which the United States is applying provisionally, by allocating a large portion of the sugar import quota to certain named countries which at the time of the issuance of the proclamation were parties or provisional parties to the International Sugar Agreement. 
2. Taking into account the factors cited in Proclamation No. 4610, and in order to enable additional countries which have become or may decide to become parties or provisional parties to the International Sugar Agreement to share currently in the import quota set aside in Proclamation No. 4610 for the parties to the International Sugar Agreement, I find it appropriate to amend that proclamation by authorizing the Secretary of State to allocate the sugar quota among supplying countries or areas to the extent necessary to conform with the provisions of the International Sugar Agreement, 1977. I find that the amendment hereinafter pro. claimed is in conformity with the International Sugar Agreement, 1977, and that it gives, as provided for in Headnote 2, of Subpart A, Part 10, Schedule 1 of the TSUS, due consideration to the interests in the United States sugar market of domestic producers and materially affected contracting parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. 
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, acting under the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes, including section 201 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, and in conformity with Headnote 2 of Subpart A, Part 10, Schedule 1 of TSUS, do hereby proclaim: 
A. The first paragraph of Headnote 3 of Subpart A, Part 10, Schedule 1 of the TSUS is modified by substituting for the second sentence of that paragraph the following: 
"This quantity shall be allocated among supplying countries or areas to the extent necessary to conform with the provisions of the International Sugar Agreement, 1977, by the Secretary of State or his designee, after appropriate consultations with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Special Trade Representative. The Secretary of State or his designee shall inform the Commissioner of Customs of such allocation, which shall be published in the FEDERAL REGISTER. 
B. The provisions of this proclamation shall become effective with respect to articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on the day following the publication in the FEDERAL REGISTER of the first allocation made pursuant to this proclamation, except that articles which were released under the provisions of section 448 (b) of the Tariff Act of 1931 (19 U.S.C. 1448(b)) prior to such date shall not be denied entry. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fourth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER