By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
On September 17, 1787, in Independence Hall, Philadelphia, our Founding Fathers adopted the Constitution of the United States. With this great document as its cornerstone, our country has become the finest example in all history of the principle of government by law, in which every individual is guaranteed certain inalienable rights. The strong beliefs of its authors in the worth of the individual and the rights to be ,enjoyed by all citizens have made the Constitution not only an enduring document but one which finds new life with the passing of years and continues to inspire freedom-seeking people all over the world. 
On February 29, 1952, by joint resolution (36 U.S.C. 153), the Congress designated September 17 as Citizenship Day, in commemoration of the formation and signing of the Constitution as a reminder of the privileges and responsibilities of citizenship. By a joint resolution of August 2, 1956 (36 U.S.C. 159), Congress authorized the President to designate the period beginning September 17 and ending September 23 of each year as Constitution Week and to issue a proclamation calling for the observance of that week. 
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, call upon appropriate Government officials to display the flag of the United States on all Government buildings on Citizenship Day, September 17, 1979. I urge Federal, State and local officials, as well as leaders of civic, educational and religious organizations to conduct meaningful ceremonies and programs on that day. 
I also designate as Constitution Week the period beginning September 17 and ending September 23, 1979, and urge all Americans to observe that week with appropriate ceremonies and activities in their schools, churches and in other suitable places in order to foster a better understanding of the Constitution, and of the rights and duties of United States citizens. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER