By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Good eyesight, like so many of life's blessings, is too often taken for granted. Today, millions of Americans must cope with the burden of impaired vision. In many of these cases, visual loss could have been prevented had only simple precautions been taken. 
Through periodic eye examinations, for example, certain potentially blinding and disabling eye conditions can often be found in time to be cured or arrested. Regular eye examinations are particularly important for children who may not realize that their vision has been impaired. For some people who have already lost vision, sight can be restored through modern eye care. Special aids and magnifiers can frequently help the partially-sighted make the most of their remaining vision. 
Besides taking advantage of professional eye care services, there is much we can do on our own to help save sight. We can protect our eyes from accidents at work and during recreational activities. We can encourage the sensible use of household products, appliances, and cosmetics and avoid abuse of drugs and alcohol. And we can be alert to the signs of eye problems among family and friends. With proper care and attention, more than half of the serious vision problems that affect both young and old can be prevented. 
To focus the attention of all Americans on the importance of good vision, the Congress, by joint resolution approved December 30, 1963 (77 Stat. 629, 36 U.S.C. 169a), has requested the President to proclaim the first week of March of each year as Save Your Vision Week. 
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, designate the week beginning March 4, 1979, as Save Your Vision Week. I urge all Americans to observe this period by considering what they can do to take care of their eyes and protect them from disease and injury. I invite vision care professionals, the communications media, educators, and all public and private organizations which support sight conservation to participate in activities which will teach Americans about eye care and encourage them to preserve or make the most of their vision. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and third. 
JIMMY CARTER