By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The future of our country lies in our children. Nutrition is vital in insuring that they reach their full potential-physically, emotionally and intellectually. 
The National School Lunch Program provides nourishing lunches to 27 million children every school day. Studies show that nutritious meals help increase the attention span and learning capabilities of students. School lunches also help children learn good dietary habits. Cafeterias can become learning laboratories, especially when menus are related to nutrition instruction in the classroom. 
Recently, many changes have been made to improve the lunch program in American schools. Thousands of people have contributed to this effort. Principals, teachers and parents, Federal, state and local officials have joined school food service personnel in improving the quality, appearance and nutrition of school meals. Students themselves have been involved through youth advisory committees. I want to recognize these individuals for their concern and their work in over 95,000 schools across the country. Their continued involvement will contribute to a healthier generation. 
In recognition of the School Lunch Program's contribution to America's youth, the Congress, by a joint resolution of October 9, 1962 (76 Stat. 779; 36 U.S.C. 168), has designated the week beginning the second Sunday of October in each year as National School Lunch Week, and has requested the President to issue annually a proclamation calling for its appropriate observance. 
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby urge the people of the United States to observe the week of October 12 as National School Lunch Week and to give special attention to activities that will promote good nutrition to America's youth. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifth.
JIMMY CARTER