By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The security of our Nation and the vitality of our economy are dependent on our wise use of limited energy resources. Transportation consumes half of our petroleum fuel. As a Nation we have begun to conserve, but we can do much more—by using public transit, by joining carpools and vanpools, by driving efficiently, and by observing the 55 mile-per-hour speed limit. 
Public transit plays an important role in the life of our cities by providing an energy-efficient means of commuting, by helping to relieve congestion, by improving air quality, and by helping to revitalize our downtown areas. Public transit is the best, and sometimes the only, means of transportation for many of our elderly, our poor, and our very young. 
The national maximum 55 mile-per-hour speed limit is a proven way to save lives and energy. If all motorists obeyed the law, we would save almost 6 billion gallons of motor fuel each year. Compliance with the law also saves lives. For the three years before the 55 mile-per-hour speed limit became law annual fatalities averaged more than 54,000. For the following three years the average dropped to 45,000, proving that the law has been the single biggest factor in reducing highway fatalities. 
The immense expenditure for individual driving adds to inflation, seriously affects our balance of payments, and threatens our standard of living. Careful selection, operation, and maintenance of our vehicles can reverse the trend in operating costs for all of us and reduce the need for imported oil. 
Ridesharing has enormous energy-saving potential and can reduce substantially our Nation's dependence on imported oil. Currently, 52 million people drive alone to work. If these drivers joined together in sharing the ride, at least 26 million cars would be removed from our congested highways, and we could save an additional 22.7 million gallons of fuel each workday and help improve our air quality. 
In view of the contributions of these measures to the conservation of our energy resources. 
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter,
 President of the United States of America, designate 
Monday, May 12, 1980, as National Public Transit Day 
Tuesday, May 13, 1980, as National Drive 55 Day 
Wednesday, May 14, 1980, as National Driver Efficiency Day, and 
Thursday, May 15, 1980, as National Ridesharing Day. 
I urge all Governors, appropriate Federal officials, transportation organizations, and the people of the United States to join with the U.S. Department of Transportation in observing these days in recognition of the vital role that transportation plays in our daily lives and in the future of an energy-secure America. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER