By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The freedoms we enjoy as Americans have evolved in great measure from the richness and strength of our Judeo-Christian heritage. The diverse cultural and religious traditions which our forefathers brought to America's shores are deeply embedded in our democratic values and ideals. 
American Jewry has made significant and lasting contributions to every facet of American life and has brought dignity and distinction to every field of American endeavor. Our Jewish citizens have contributed greatly to our economic and moral growth as a Nation and have fought bravely throughout the world in defense of our freedoms. 
This Spring, as in the past, American Jewry remembers its struggles, celebrates its achievements, and renews its dedication to the challenges that remain. From the observance of Passover, which recalls that historic passage from bondage to freedom and rekindles the hope for all who are oppressed, through the remembrance of the Warsaw Ghetto uprising and the memorial commemorating the victims and survivors of the Holocaust, Jews all over the world pay tribute to their past and give hope to the future. It is the time of celebration of Israel's Independence Day, Jerusalem Day, and Solidarity Day for Soviet Jews. It is a period when Jewish people in the United States renew their common heritage with Jews throughout the world and with all people of goodwill. 
In recognition of the significance of this time of year to American Jewry, in tribute to the significant contributions made by the Jewish community to our society, and in appreciation and understanding of the cultural diversity of the American people, the Congress of the United States, by joint resolution, has requested the President to proclaim April 25 through May 2, 1982, as Jewish Heritage Week. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning April 25, 1982, as Jewish Heritage Week. 
I call upon the people of the United States, Federal and local government officials, and interested organizations to observe that week with appropriate ceremonies, activities, and reflection. 
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this 27th. day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixth.
RONALD REAGAN