By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
In 1984, the United States of America will host a major international exposition that will explore the fundamental relationship of water to life. To be held in New Orleans on the great Mississippi River, the Louisiana World Exposition has as its theme "The World of Rivers—Fresh Water as a Source of Life." 
The theme is most timely and appropriate. 
We are the first generation in history to have seen the Earth from space, and it has given us new understanding. As seen from those great distances, the dominant colors of Earth are blue and white; blue for the great oceans, and white for the canopy of clouds that replenish the land with fresh water, forming rivers and streams that lead again to the oceans. Earth is primarily a water planet. 
As the world economy grows, the wise use of all resources, including fresh water, becomes increasingly important. The direct human suffering caused by severe droughts and floods is monumental and can affect the global economic and political system. Man's technological and economic response to the challenge of new demands on our water needs to be shared and demonstrated. 
There is inspiration, too, in the power and majesty of the world's rivers and their role in shaping the culture and history of so many different peoples. This celebration of the World of Rivers will be a celebration of the human experience itself. 
With its many splendid opportunities for cultural and technological exchange, the Louisiana World Exposition has the full and enthusiastic support of the United States Government. In accordance with law, I shall appoint a United States Commissioner General to exercise the responsibility of the United States Government for fulfillment of the Convention of November 22, 1928, Relating to International Expositions, as modified. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, in further recognition of this Louisiana World Exposition, do hereby invite the several States of the Union and its Territories to participate in the exposition and authorize and direct the Secretary of State to invite, on my behalf, such foreign countries as he may consider appropriate to participate in this event. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixth.
RONALD REAGAN