By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Diabetes is a complex disorder in which the body is unable to convert sugars and starches properly into the energy necessary for daily activity. As a major public health problem, diabetes can result in certain long-term complications that may involve virtually every tissue of the body, particularly the blood vessels, nervous system, kidneys and eyes. At present, there is no cure for this chronic disorder that now affects an estimated 11 million Americans. 
In recent years, research has yielded promising new information on the possible causes and improved management of diabetes and its complications. This research has provided significant advances ranging from a better understanding of factors that cause or contribute to the disease to the development of laser therapy for eyes damaged by diabetes. There still exists a great opportunity for medical science to reduce human suffering and improve the lives of diabetic patients. 
In cooperation with private voluntary organizations, the Federal government is actively participating in this ongoing scientific challenge. Through the combined efforts of government, university, and private researchers, it is hoped that steady progress will continue to be made toward more effective methods of diabetic control. The goal of this work is to improve the lives of patients and reduce the impact of this disease on our nation. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, in accordance with Senate Joint Resolution 257, do hereby proclaim the month of November, 1982, as National Diabetes Month, and I call upon government agencies and the people of the United States to observe this month with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 2nd day of Nov., in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightytwo, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventh.
RONALD REAGAN