By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Cancer is a major concern to the American people because statistics demonstrate that at least one out of four Americans now living will become a victim of this disease. However, it is important to recognize that we are making progress against this dread killer—in basic research, in prevention, and in bringing the fruits of cancer research to the community. 
Recent empirical studies and basic research are bringing us close to an understanding of how best to prevent, diagnose, and treat cancer. Such scientific advances as the discovery of the oncogene, or cancer gene, have provided fresh insights into the molecular process of this disease. Also on the horizon are positive developments in several areas that enhance our ability to deal with this disease syndrome: e.g., the utilization of hyperthermia, improved immunotherapeutic techniques that include the use of monoclonal antibodies and new vaccines, and approaches to surgery that, while less severe in nature, remain a major weapon in our arsenal. 
We continue to gather information indicating that life-style and environment play a significant part in the incidence of cancer. Today there is a growing awareness of carcinogens and radiation as causative factors in cancer development. We recognize more fully the importance of diet and nutrition as factors in the development and prevention of this disease. As we evaluate the incidence of cancer among various groups of people, we may be able to identify substances that can have a chemopreventive effect on the population as a whole. 
Reports issued by the Surgeon General increasingly link cigarette smoking with cancer of the lung and other parts of the body. 
A concerted effort has begun to bring the latest advances in cancer care and treatment to the community at large in a more effective way than ever before. We hope that with the good-will, determination, and support of the American people, our continued progress will eventually lead to the control and prevention of this tragic disease. 
In 1938, the Congress of the United States passed a joint resolution requesting the President to issue an annual proclamation declaring April to be Cancer Control Month. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of April, 1983, as Cancer Control Month. I invite the Governors of the fifty States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the appropriate officials of all other areas under the United States flag, to issue similar proclamations. I also ask the health care professionals, the communications industry, and all other interested persons and groups to unite during this appointed time to reaffirm publicly our Nation's continuing commitment to control cancer. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this seventh day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventh.
RONALD REAGAN