By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
A major problem faced by our Nation's elderly and homebound is isolation. For many, friends and spouses have died, and families have moved away. When no one is left to check in on these individuals on a regular basis, illness or injury may go undetected until more serious consequences-even death—may result. 
The United States Postal Service and the National Association of Letter Carriers are doing something to alleviate this problem. In growing numbers of towns and cities all across America, they are involved in a program called "Carrier Alert" in which mail carriers monitor the mailboxes of participating residents for unusual accumulations of mail which may signal distress. When such an accumulation occurs, the Postal Service notifies a local sponsoring social service agency which investigates and provides any necessary assistance. 
Because mail carriers are in a unique position to be able to spot this kind of trouble quickly, the "Carrier Alert" program provides an effective and valuable service to the community. Participation in the program is entirely voluntary and costs nothing to postal customers. Since the inception of the "Carrier Alert" program in 1982, numerous press accounts around the country have documented instances in which the program has saved the lives or eased the sufferings of elderly or disabled people who would have been left to languish alone in their pain but for a carrier's concern. 
To encourage the American people to become more aware of the "Carrier Alert" program, to participate more broadly in it, and to recognize the efforts of the United States Postal Service and the National Association of Letter Carriers in providing this public-spirited assistance, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 141, has designated the week of December 4, 1983, through December 10, 1983, as "Carrier Alert Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of that week. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning December 4, 1983 as "Carrier Alert Week." I call upon the American people to observe that week with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this second day of December, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.
RONALD REAGAN