By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Our forests and grasslands constitute a major renewable natural resource of the Nation. As such, they must be carefully nurtured and protected if we are to pass on their precious legacy of use and enjoyment to future generations of Americans. 
The importance of forests and grasslands to the stability of our environment in terms of air quality, water, wildlife, range, timber, and recreation is beyond calculation. Furthermore, the list of products from these lands that enhance our lives is extensive. 
We are especially fortunate that as usage of our forests and rangelands has doubled over the past four decades, the number of acres damaged by wildfires has been reduced by half. This important development is due to increased public awareness of the dangers of fire, prompted in great measure by the untiring fire prevention efforts of Smokey Bear and his everpresent reminder, "Only you can prevent forest fires." 
This year marks the fortieth anniversary of the introduction of Smokey Bear into the Cooperative Fire Protection Campaign conducted by the United States Department of Agriculture Forest Service, the Advertising Council, and the National Association of State Foresters. On this occasion, it is appropriate to acknowledge the success of this unique public service campaign to promote public concern for prevention of forest fires and wise stewardship of our forests. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 273, has designated the week of October 7, 1984, through October 13, 1984, as "Smokey Bear Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue an appropriate proclamation. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 7, 1984, through October 13, 1984, as Smokey Bear Week, and I call upon all Americans to celebrate this week with appropriate ceremonies. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 11th day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.
RONALD REAGAN