By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
More than fifteen million Americans of all ages experience some degree and form of hearing impairment. These hearing-impaired Americans continue to share in the life of the Nation, contribute to family life and the home, and provide civic support to their communities. They have steadfastly striven not only to Overcome their handicaps, but also to assist other members of our society. In so doing, the deaf and hearing impaired have made significant contributions to society, science, the arts and industry in virtually every field. 
Research has shown us that hearing loss can sometimes be alleviated, corrected, or best of all, prevented. Scientific investigators supported by the Federal government's National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke and by professional societies and voluntary health organizations are learning more about how the auditory system works, and what can go wrong and why. Innovative programs in research, education, and prevention have long been conducted and supported by many voluntary agencies working on behalf of the hearing impaired. I commend their dedication to this important service. 
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 407, has designated the week beginning April 8, 1984, as "National Hearing Impaired Awareness Week," and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of that week. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning April 8, 1984, as National Hearing Impaired Awareness Week. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate activities in their homes, offices, schools, and communities, and I urge all Americans to reflect upon the important contributions made by the hearing-impaired citizens to the progress and well-being of our country. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 13th day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightyfour, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.
RONALD REAGAN