By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The Territory of Alaska was admitted to the Union on January 3, 1959, as the fortyninth State. In the twenty-five years since then, the sturdy inhabitants of our largest State have continued with distinction the work of developing this vast storehouse of abundant resources, while preserving its special environment. As a result of their efforts, Alaska now produces one-eighth of the Nation's gold, one-fifth of its petroleum, and two-fifths of its harvested fish. Ten of the sixteen strategic minerals vital to our Nation's security are produced in Alaska. The millions of dollars worth of minerals, forest and food products, and energy resources produced each year have long since repaid many times over the $7,000,000 paid by the United States to purchase Alaska in 1867.
The people of Alaska constitute a special resource, one which has made possible the wise use of all the other abundant resources of this important State. Native Alaskans and immigrants from every State, as well as foreign countries, have worked together to build the cities, pipelines, rail, water, air, and ground transportation facilities which are the basis of Alaska's prosperity. Their hard work and dedication are an example to the rest of our people as we work to maintain America's greatness. 
In recognition of the importance of Alaska's people and its scenic and natural resources to the United States and in honor of the twenty-fifth anniversary of the admission of Alaska into the Union, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 42, has authorized and requested the President to proclaim January 3, 1984, as "Alaska Statehood Day." 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim January 3, 1984, as Alaska Statehood Day and call upon the people of the United States and the Federal, State, and local governments to observe that day with appropriate ceremonies. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 3rd day of Jan., in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-4, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.
RONALD REAGAN