By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Older workers today represent a national resource of incomparable knowledge, judgment, and experience. In the coming decades, it is likely that older workers will constitute an increasing percentage of our population. Therefore, it is vital to the future prosperity of this Nation that these workers be encouraged to continue to make their considerable contributions by remaining in the work force or by serving their communities in voluntary roles. 
Many employers have already recognized the potential contributions of older workers and have initiated hiring, retraining, second career, and job retention programs. In addition to these significant private initiatives, the Federal government has been active in promoting opportunities for older workers through a variety of efforts, including the recently implemented Job Training Partnership Act. These various private and public sector efforts have successfully demonstrated that, if sufficient opportunities are available, older workers can continue to make useful and valuable contributions which enhance the quality of life for their communities and which develop a renewed sense of their accomplishment and self-worth. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 205, has called for the designation by the President of the second full week in March, 1984 as "National Employ the Older Worker Week." Recognition of this special week presents an invaluable opportunity to focus public attention on the accomplishments of older workers. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week beginning March 11, 1984, as National Employ the Older Worker Week, and I call upon the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. I urge all Governors, Mayors, and other public officials, leaders in business and labor, voluntary organizations, and private citizens to give special consideration to older workers with a view toward expanding the opportunities available to them. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 16th day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightyfour, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.
RONALD REAGAN