By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The month of November is traditionally a time for families to come together and give thanks for their blessings. It is fitting that November also be designated as National Alzheimer's Disease Month to express our compassion for those who suffer from this heartbreaking disorder and our appreciation for the many families who devote themselves to the care of afflicted loved ones who no longer can help themselves. 
Alzheimer's disease is the major cause of serious confusion and forgetfulness in old age. The death of brain cells, a mark of this devastating disease, at first causes erratic behavior and unusual memory lapses and ultimately results in the "senility" once thought to be a normal part of old age. 
Experts estimate that some two million Americans suffer from Alzheimer's disease, including between five and ten percent of our population over 65 and 20 percent of those over 80. If present trends continue, anticipated increases could double the number of victims in these age groups by the turn of the century. 
In addition to the unhappy victims, untold numbers of others suffer the physical, emotional and financial burdens of caring for relatives who are ill with this disease. Families care for their ill relatives at home, if possible, and later in nursing homes. Between one-third and one-half of all patients in those institutions suffer from Alzheimer's disease or another serious irreversible form of dementia. 
The medical research community is focusing special attention on this disease, and research is beginning to reveal many of its mysteries. Thus, research is providing the affected families with a great deal of hope. Until a cure is found, however, these families need our support and understanding. Public awareness of their problems is growing, due to the work of voluntary health associations—notably the Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association—but much remains to be done. 
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 451, has designated the month of November 1984 as "National Alzheimer's Disease Month" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this month. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of November 1984 as National Alzheimer's Disease Month. Let us mark this month by striving to educate ourselves about Alzheimer's disease and by participating in appropriate activities and observances. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this first day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.
RONALD REAGAN