By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
America's neighborhoods are made up of families representing a great variety of ethnic, social, and economic backgrounds. From this rich mix of cultures and experiences, a strong sense of cooperation and commitment has emerged that enhances our sense of the Nation as a larger family of people caring for one another. As we complete our preparations for the national celebration of the centennial of the Statue of Liberty this July 4, we are made even more aware of the special blessings, the strengths, and the virtues that flow from our long heritage of welcoming and drawing on the experiences of people from diverse backgrounds to make our free society ever more dynamic, cohesive, and productive. 
When any neighborhood suffers from decline due to loss of business or other factors, all of its residents feel the pinch, but the elderly and the poor suffer most. Homes decline in value, economic growth stops, businesses relocate, and residents face real hardships. The Nation as a whole suffers, since thriving neighborhoods are the living cells of our national life. That is why it is so important to arrest the deterioration and revive the strength and vigor of America's neighborhoods. 
Traditionally, Americans have recognized such problems and have worked together to develop practical solutions at the grass-roots level. Neighborhood Housing Services programs, which are partnerships made up of local residents, business leaders, and government officials, reflect this spirit and give scope to the ingenuity of the American people. Throughout the United States, Neighborhood Housing Services programs are working to revitalize more than 200 neighborhoods. Already, they have generated more than three billion dollars in reinvestment funds. Rather than looking to the Federal government for assistance, these programs have relied primarily on local and private resources and the help of hundreds of volunteers. These volunteers have contributed countless hours of work to help rebuild and revitalize neighborhoods. 
The efforts and accomplishments of Neighborhood Housing Services programs have earned the respect and gratitude 'of all who recognize that local initiatives and self-reliance will always be the major factor in solving local problems. It is fitting and appropriate that their efforts be recognized by all Americans. 
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 492, has designated the week beginning June 1, 1986, as "National Neighborhood Housing Services Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning June 1, 1986, as National Neighborhood Housing Services Week. I call upon local and State jurisdictions, appropriate Federal agencies, and the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and tenth.
RONALD REAGAN