By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
America is blessed with a great wealth of natural resources—magnificent land, water, fish, and wildlife—as well as historic resources, places associated with the memories of great individuals, cultures, events, and structures of great historic or esthetic importance. 
Many of our most prized natural and cultural resources are preserved as public sites for the benefit of all Americans. From national and State parks, forests, and shores to local playgrounds and urban open spaces, public lands provide recreational and educational opportunities for persons from every walk of life. 
Although most people treat these treasured common possessions with the respect they deserve, some visitors to our public lands are thoughtless. Their litter, vandalism, theft, wildlife poaching, and other abuses are taking a toll on the legacy we will be passing on to future generations. With over 700 million acres of Federal public land and millions more of State and local public land, government cannot protect each acre without the support of the people who use these lands. 
Fortunately, citizens and organizations all over America have taken it upon themselves to make a difference—to make these lands better for all of us. These voluntary cleanup and restoration activities have been conducted in cooperation with organizations such as Keep America Beautiful and Federal land managing agencies. Those who participate in this worthy endeavor have not only improved these lands and waters, but also have set an example for others to follow. Such stewardship embodies the spirit of commitment we hope to inspire with our "Take Pride in America" campaign , a partnership of Federal agencies, State and local governments, and private organizations to promote such voluntary efforts by individual Americans. 
To celebrate and encourage these efforts on behalf of our public lands, the Congress, pursuant to Public Law 99-402, has designated the first Saturday after Labor Day of each year as "Federal Lands Cleanup Day" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this occasion. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim September 6, 1986, and the first Saturday after Labor Day in each successive year as Federal Lands Cleanup Day and urge all Americans to observe this day with appropriate activities that reflect our continuing dedication to the wise use and loving preservation of our natural and cultural resources. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eleventh.
RONALD REAGAN