By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Americans increasingly look to the water for recreation and relaxation. This year, approximately one-quarter of us will enjoy boating in one or more of its many and varied forms. Therefore, it is important that all those involved in recreational boating should put a high priority on safety. They should know and obey the rules of safe boating, and show courtesy and consideration on the water. 
The theme of this year's National Safe Boating Week—"Be Smart! Take a Boating Course!"—emphasizes the importance of learning the safe way to enjoy the sport of boating. Every year, more and more people engage in a variety of boating activities and our Nation's waters are increasingly utilized by a dazzling array of pleasure craft including sailboards, dinghies, ketches, catboats, outriggers, sloops, power yachts, and high-speed motorboats. Lack of knowledge on the part of boat operators makes them liable to expose themselves unnecessarily to hazards, thus endangering not only themselves, but others as well. A review of fatal boating accidents shows that over twothirds were the fault of the operator. And less than one-quarter of these operators had received any kind of boating education. Through the observance of National Safe Boating Week, 1986, all Americans should be alerted to the importance of learning the rules of safe boating. 
In recognition of the need for boating safety, the Congress, by joint resolution approved June 4, 1958, as amended (36 U.S.C. 161), authorized and requested the President to proclaim annually the week commencing on the first Sunday in June as "National Safe Boating Week." 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning June 1, 1986, as National Safe Boating Week. I also invite the Governors of the States, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa, and the Mayor of the District of Columbia to provide for the observance of this week. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this third day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and tenth.
RONALD REAGAN