By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation 
David Ben-Gurion, first Prime Minister of Israel, was born one hundred years ago, on October 16, 1886. From his boyhood, an independent Israel was his dream. He never wavered in pursuit of that dream; he worked all his life long to establish the State of Israel and to build and strengthen it. He succeeded. 
Every quality we associate with statesmanship was David Ben-Gurion's—wisdom, tremendous ability, great resourcefulness-but none more so than the vision and the determination that propelled him decade after decade. Israel's existence is a true testament to the spirit and the deeds of David Ben-Gurion. He would have wanted no other legacy.
Among the many links between the United States and Israel are principles that were dear to David Ben-Gurion. The Declaration of Independence of the State of Israel, a milestone in the life of Ben-Gurion, echoes the American Declaration of Independence in its recognition of the equality of every human being. 
In order to honor the celebration of the centennial of the birth of David Ben-Gurion and the values of freedom and democracy we share with Israel, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 422, has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation designating 1986 as the centennial of the birth of David Ben-Gurion. 
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim 1986 as the centennial of David Ben-Gurion's birth, and I urge all Americans to take note of this commemoration and join in the celebration of the birth of this great statesman. I also applaud the David Ben-Gurion Centennial Committee of the United States of America in its work promoting the year-long celebration of David Ben-Gurion and his achievements. 
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this seventh day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eleventh.
RONALD REAGAN 
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:00 a.m., November 10, 1986]