By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Our Nation's forests have been prized not only for their great beauty, but also for the wealth of natural resources they provide. These forests supply us with fuel, a variety of useful paper products, and the wood with which we build our homes and furniture. They also provide a habitat for much of our Nation's wildlife, as well as a scenic environment for family outings and vacations. Throughout the history of the United States, America's dense forests have contributed to our shelter, warmth, convenience, and recreation. 
Today, nearly 740 million acres of land in the United States are forested. A century ago, such continued abundance was in doubt. During the late 1800's, forests were being depleted at an alarming rate, and some Americans predicted an eventual timber shortage. Fortunately, however, early leaders in forest conservation -- including President Theodore Roosevelt and Gifford Pinchot, the Nation's first trained forester -- helped to reverse that trend. Their legacy is one for which we should be thankful. 
The premise of their conservation legacy is that, while forests need protection, they can be used and renewed for the personal well-being of the American people and for the sake of the Nation's economy. Yet they must be used wisely. Like other agricultural crops, new trees must be planted for future harvests, if natural regeneration does not appear to be adequate. 
Our adherence to this simple principle has been rewarded. Each year, we harvest large quantities of timber for building, paper products, fuel, and much more. Primary wood manufacturing provides jobs for more than 600,000 workers and millions of jobs in related industries. 
Our Nation has been blessed by an abundance of natural resources. It is our obligation to future generations to use these resources. responsibly. By caring for our forests and replenishing them in a timely way, we can help ensure that they -- and the Nation itself -- continue to prosper. 
All Americans can participate in the vital process of reforestation. Last year, Federal efforts resulted in the planting of 340,000 acres of new trees. Private voluntary organizations, families, and businesses planted eight times that number. 
Every tree sown helps to reduce soil erosion by wind and water; improve air quality by reducing carbon dioxide in the atmosphere; and provide fuel, shelter, and valuable food and paper products. Whether planted on public land or in a suburban backyard, every tree also represents a living compact between generations. Through reforestation, we can help give our children and grandchildren a greener, healthier environment. Each tree makes a difference -- so, too, does each American who plants a new one. 
In recognition of the value of our forests, the Congress, by Public Law 86-753 (36 U.S.C. 163), has designated the week beginning on the third Sunday in October of each year as "National Forest Products Week" and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning October 15, 1989, as National Forest Products Week and call upon all Americans to observe that week with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH