By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
"We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness." With these words, our Nation's Founding Fathers declared America's independence from Great Britain more than 200 years ago. In so doing, they asserted the principles that form the fundamental moral vision of the United States. That vision -- which recognizes protection of the God-given rights of individuals as the only legitimate end of just government -- has inspired the United State's efforts to promote and defend the cause of freedom around the world. We Americans are firmly committed to the advancement of freedom and human rights because we also recognize the inherent relationship between respect for the worth and dignity of each person and the attainment of genuine peace and security. 
In 1789, our Nation's Founding Fathers enumerated the rights of individuals in the first ten amendments proposed to our Constitution, known as the Bill of Rights. James Madison once noted that the idea of a Bill of Rights was valuable because "political truths declared in that solemn manner acquire by degrees the character of fundamental maxims of free government." Two hundred years later, the principles enshrined in our Bill of Rights have proved to be not only guiding tenets of American government, but also a model for the world. 
The Bill of Rights guarantees freedom of speech and of the press, as well as freedom of religion and association; it ensures that no person shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property without due process of law; and it prohibits unreasonable search and seizure of a person's home, papers, or possessions. The Bill of Rights also guarantees anyone accused of a crime the right to a jury trial and defense counsel; the right to be informed of the charges against him; and protection against cruel or unusal punishment. 
Two hundred years after the Bill of Rights was proposed to the States by the Congress, we can behold the remarkable influence and prescience of our Nation's Founding Fathers. In the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted on December 10, 1948, the United Nations General Assembly provided a resounding affirmation of the ideals enshrined in our Bill of Rights. This Declaration established a common standard of conduct for all peoples and all governments. Its signatories agreed to respect freedom of thought, freedom of conscience, as well as freedom of religion and belief. They also recognized an individual's right to freedom of movement and assembly, as well as his right to participate in the government of his country and to own property, either alone or in association with others. Noting that respect for the "inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice, and peace in the world," the Declaration reaffirmed our conviction that human rights violations are the concern of all mankind, and not simply the internal affair of any given nation. 
In some areas of the world, we are witnessing historic change and significant improvements in human rights. We applaud the changes and at the same time will remain vigilant to help ensure that progress continues. We will continue to encourage institutionalization of reforms already introduced. 
10Tragically, however, in contempt for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and for fundamental standards of morality, the rights of individuals are still being denied in many countries around the world. We will continue to condemn such human rights violations and to call upon the leaders of all countries to honor both the letter and spirit of international human rights agreements. 
Safeguarding individual liberty and fundamental human rights is not only the duty of any legitimate government, but also the key to economic prosperity and lasting peace among nations. The United States thus has both a moral obligation and a proper interest in defending human rights and denouncing abuses of them wherever and whenever they occur. Our commitment to this obligation is unflagging. So, this week, as we give thanks for the freedom we enjoy as Americans, let us also renew our determination to value and protect the rights of others. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim December 10, 1989, as Human Rights Day and December 15, 1989, as Bill of Rights Day, and I call upon all Americans to observe the week beginning December 10, 1989, as Human Rights Week. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of December, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH