By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
During the holiday season that begins on Thanksgiving, our thoughts turn toward home and family. At this special time of year, most of us can recall warm memories of past family gatherings as we look forward to being reunited once again with our dearest relatives and other loved ones. Tragically, however, thousands of American youngsters will not be able to enjoy this festive and holy season with a family of their own -- these are children waiting to be adopted. 
Each year, some 60,000 waiting children do find permanent, loving homes in the United States. Each year, many infants are given the chance for full and happy lives when their biological mothers choose adoption over abortion. Nevertheless, an estimated 30,000 children who are legally available for adoption still wait in foster care for permanent families. Many of these children have special needs -- they are children with physical, mental, or emotional disabilities; they are older or minority children; and they are children with siblings who need to be adopted by the same family. Regardless of the individual needs they may have, all of these waiting children are eager to love and to be loved by a family of their own. 
An act of faith, courage, and generosity, adoption benefits everyone it touches: the youngster who needs and desires a lasting home and loving family; the expectant mother who, for whatever reason, cannot keep her child; and the prospective parents who long to open their hearts and their homes to adoptive children. However, despite the many benefits of adoption, thousands of children continue to wait. 
In both the public and private sectors, we must continue working to eliminate daunting legal, financial, and attitudinal barriers to adoption. Toward that end, my Administration has developed proposals to help individuals meet the financial commitment involved in adopting children with special needs. We are also taking steps to encourage interested Federal employees to adopt. 
During National Adoption Week, we gratefully recognize all those Americans who have joined in the effort to find permanent homes for waiting children -- the counselors, social workers, attorneys, legislators, volunteers, employers, media professionals, and members of the clergy who devote their time, skills, and resources to encouraging adoption. This week let us also express our admiration and pledge our support for those courageous and selfless women who choose life for their unborn children. Finally, let us also remember those precious youngsters who, on this very day, wait to be adopted -- let us renew our determination to help them gain the sense of security and belonging that they so desperately need and deserve. 
To promote public awareness of adoption, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 362, has designated the period commencing on November 18, 1990, and ending on November 24, 1990, as "National Adoption Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of November 18 through November 24, 1990, as National Adoption Week. I urge all Americans to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH