By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Since its founding more than a century ago, the American Red Cross has inspired millions of Americans to participate in its voluntary public service programs. Today, dedicated Red Cross volunteers -- some one million strong -- help bring vital aid and services to victims of natural disasters and other emergencies, to people in need of blood, and to members of the United States Armed Forces. These compassionate and hardworking volunteers are also helping to bring useful health and safety information to the public. 
Last year, Red Cross workers across the Nation responded to more than 50,000 emergencies, from serious train accidents and house fires to devastating floods and earthquakes. When Hurricane Hugo and the Loma Prieta earthquake in California struck within less than 30 days of each other, the Red Cross rushed aid to more than 30 days of each other, the Red Cross rushed aid to more than 143,000 families on both U.S. coasts and in the Caribbean. Never in the history of the American Red Cross had so many people depended on the food, clothing, medical assistance, and shelter provided by its workerd. Never in its history had the Red Cross responded more ably to the call for help from disaster victimns. 
The Red Cross also teaches people how to prevent and prepare for more common emergencies through courses in first aid, CPR, and water safety, as well as other educational programs. Each day, thousands of Red Cross instructors impart lifesaving knowledge and skills to young people and adults in communities across the country. Thanks to their efforts, some seven million Americans are certified yearly to provide emergency aid in life-threatening situations. 
Today, the American Red Cross is a leader in efforts to stop the spread of AIDS. Across the country, knowledgeable Red Cross volunteers are teaching the public about this deadly disease. Through its careful testing of donated blood, the Red Cross is also helping to make our Nation's blood supply as safe as possible. 
Each year, the Red Cross collects and tests more than six million units of blood, ensuring that safe and adequate supplies will be available for the ill and the injured. In addition to its blood donor programs, the American Red Cross renders vital organ and tissue transplantation services. 
A less commonly known but equally important activity of the Red Cross is its cooperation with the United States Armed Forces. The Red Cross assists our active-duty military men and women and their families with information, referral services, and emergency communications. Thousands of Red Cross staff members and volunteers serve on U.S. military installations around the world, providing an important link to home for our service men and women. 
However, the work done abroad by the American Red Cross extends far beyond U.S. military bases. American Red Cross workers have brought desperately needed aid to victims of the December 1988 earthquake in Armenia. They have also brought relief to the people of Eastern Europe, to the hungry in Africa, and to victims of disaster and armed conflict in other parts of the world. 
Dedicated to serving individuals in need without regard to race, creed, cause, or nationality, the American Red Cross has earned the respect and gratitude of millions of people around the Nation and the world. This month, we salute its outstanding staff and volunteers. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America and Honorary Chairman of the American National Red Cross, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the month of March 1990 as American Red Cross Month. I urge all Americans to continue their generous support of the work of the American Red Cross and its nearly 2,800 chapters. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 23 day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH