By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Radon is a naturally occurring element that is present in most soils and rocks. When enough radon gas enters a home or other building through cracks and openings commonly found in the foundations of such structures, it may become a health hazard. 
High levels of radon in the home are believed to increase residents' risk of developing certain health problems, such as lung cancer. Smokers, former smokers, and children may be especially sensitive to radon exposure. 
It is estimated that some level of radon gas can be found in one out of ten homes across the country. Fortunately, however, it is relatively easy to protect families from potentially harmful radon exposure. Radon home test kits are widely available, and factors that allow homes to develop high radon levels can be corrected at moderate costs. 
The Environmental Protection Agency and a number of State governments -- as well as the American Lung Association, the Advertising Council, and the American Medical Association -- have initiated programs to educate the public about radon. Many other concerned agencies and organizations are supporting local efforts to test homes and schools. I join with them in urging Americans to test their homes for radon and to make any necessary modifications to reduce excessive levels of the gas. Radon is a health concern that we can readily address. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 317, has designated the week of October 14 through October 20, 1990, as "National Radon Action Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of October 14 through October 20, 1990, as National Radon Action Week. I encourage the people of the United States, as well as government officials, to observe this week with appropriate programs and activities designed to enhance public awareness of the risks of excessive radon exposure and ways we can reduce them. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH