By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Today we note with great pride and admiration the many accomplishments made by American women in sports. From participating on school sports teams to representing the United States at the Olympic Games, girls and women of every age are talented athletes and competitors. 
Through athletics, many young women have developed a greater sense of self-confidence, self-discipline, and individual initiative. Participation in sports has also enabled many girls and women to enjoy more fully the rewards of being physically fit. 
The leadership skills girls and women gain through sports and fitness activities serve them well throughout life -- in their education, in the course of their daily activities, at home, and in the work force. Our Nation also benefits from the leadership and example provided by women athletes. Hardworking and determined and firmly committed to excellence, female athletes are positive role models for young people throughout the United States. 
In recent years, our Nation has made important strides towards encouraging greater participation in girls' and women's sports. Today we look for continued progress. Daily physical education classes for students in grades K through 12 can serve as a valuable means for promoting athletic achievement among young women. New research into fitness and sports programs for women is also promising. 
To commemorate the participation, achievement, and excellence of women and girls in sports, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 82, has designated February 8, 1990, as "National Women and Girls in Sports Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim February 8, 1990, as National Women and Girls in Sports Day. I invite the Governors of the States, appropriate Federal agencies, and the American people to join me in recognizing the significance of women's athletic achievements. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH