By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
We Americans have always taken pride in being an independent and self-reliant people. These qualities are especially important to persons with disabilities, and the deaf and hard-of-hearing are no exception. 
Over the years, advances in technology have helped to eliminate many of the physical barriers that once prevented disabled individuals from participating fully in the social and economic life of their communities. Today, deaf and hering impaired men and women around the country are destroying manyof the attitudinal barriers that have likewise limited their opportunities for educational and economic advancement. More and more of these Americans, and persons with other disabilities, are assuming positions of leadership and responsibiity throughout the United States. Their achievements provide a compelling reminder that every member of our society is a person of immeasurable worth and potential. 
The students, faculty, and administrators of Gallaudet University, a private, nonprofit liberal arts institution in our Nation's Capital, have played a prominent role in promoting public awareness of the rights, needs, and abilities of the deaf and hearing impaired. By providing valuable educational opportunities for persons with disabilities, and by helping to destroy myths and misconceptions about deafness, Gallaudet and other schools for the deaf and hard-of-hearing are making a significant constribution to our Nation's efforts to ensure that these individuals enjoy full participation in the mainstream American life. 
In recognition of the rights and accomplishments of deaf and hearing impaired Americans, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 227, has designated the week of March 11 through March 17, 1990, as "Deaf Awareness Week" and has requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of march 11 through march 17, 1990, as Deaf Awareness Week and invite all americans to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day of March,in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourtheenth. 
GEORGE BUSH