By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The white cane is a simple yet effective tool that enables many of America's citizens with visual impairments to enjoy greater independence and freedom of movement. This familiar device helps visually impaired individuals to navigate through their environment safely, avoiding physical barriers and hazards. 
For millions of Americans, both those with visual disabilities and those without, the white cane is also a symbol of dignity and determination. It is a tangible remainder that those Americans who have impaired eyesight possess not only the desire but also the ability to lead full, independent, and productive lives. 
Each year, during the observance of White Cane Safety Day, we renew our commitment to eliminating physical and attitudinal barriers that continue to hinder the full participation of blind persons in our society. On this White Cane Safety Day we also celebrate the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, which I signed into law on July 26, 1990. A declaration of equality for persons with disabilities, this historic legislation guarantees these citizens protection against discrimination as well as greater opportunities to participate in the mainstream of American life. 
In recognition of the white cane and all that it symbolizes, the Congress, by Joint Resolution approved October 6, 1964, has authorized the President to designate October 15 of each year as "White Cane Safety Day." 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 15, 1990, as White Cane Safety Day. I urge all Americans to show respect for those who carry the white cane and to honor, through appropriate ceremonies and activities, their many achievements. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eleventh day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH