By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
For more than 100 years, our Nation's historically Black colleges and universities have been committed to opportunity and academic excellence. At a time when many institutions of higher learning barred their doors to Black Americans, these colleges and universities offered minority men and women their best, and often their only, opportunity to pursue a post-secondary education. Today, while the barriers that led to the creation of separate schools for minority students have been eliminated by law, America's historically Black colleges and universities continue a great tradition of educational choice and diversity. 
Since the first of these institutions was established over a century ago, historically Black colleges and universities have played a significant role in the social, economic, and political development of the United States. Thousands of their students worked tirelessly and courageously during the early years of the civil rights movement; seeking an end to racial discrimination and segregation in the United States and calling upon their fellow Americans to uphold this Nation's promise as a land of liberty and opportunity for all. Their graduates have advanced to distinguished and influential careers in business, government, education, science, engineering, and in virtually every other field of endeavor. Today historically Black colleges and universities offer Americans of all backgrounds rewarding opportunities to gain the knowledge and skills needed to participate more fully in our increasingly technological and competitive world. 
In recognition of the exemplary goals and achievements of historically Black colleges and universities, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 285, has designated the week beginning September 9 and ending September 15, 1990, as "National Historically Black Colleges Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of September 9 through September 15, 1990, as National Historically Black Colleges Week. I encourage all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities designed to express our appreciation and support for these important educational institutions. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 12th day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.