By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Our Nation's efforts to eliminate the scourge of ilicit drug use and trafficking -- efforts made in comoperation with other countries and conducted at all levelsof law enforcement -- have begun to bear fruit. In many parts of the United States today cocaine is harder to find, more expensive, and less pure than it was one year ago. Drug cartels that once seemed invincible have seen their operations significantly disrupted. Last month, new survey research released by the Partnership for a Drug Free America confirmed a trend already observed in other surveys and government indicators: a turn away from durgs in American attitudes and behavior, especially among young people, fewer of whom are using drugs than at any time since 1979. Such progress accentuates the importzance of maintaining a strong, united front among government officials, law enforcement personnel, parents, educators, and business and community leaders as we wage the war against drugs. 
Although we have made important advances in the struggle to reclaim our schools and communities from the deadly influence of drug dealers, we know that there is still much work to do. Each day the news berings grim reminders of the violence and despair caused by substance abuse. Illicit drug use and its consequences affect Americans of every age, every region, every race, and every walk of life. The toll in terms of health care costs and other economic losses is enormous. The toll in terms of personal suffering and wasted human potential is incalculable. 
The high price imposed on our society by drugs underscores the need for education and other efforts aimed at prevention. We must teach young Americans about the dangers of experimenting with drugs, and we must refuse to tolerate in our communities the merchants of death who deal them. Because children learn by example, we must also ensure that our own lives reflect strong values, respect for the law, and a sense of personal responsibility and concern for others. 
Securing a drug-free future for every American school and community will require the personal commitment and sustained cooperation of parents, students, teachers, law enforcement personnel, members of the clergy, elected officials, and business and community leaders. On this occasion, let us renew our determination to promote policies, educational programs, and activities designed to deter drug use, and let us reaffirm our commitment to helping drug-addicted individuals in need of rehabilitation. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 304, has designated October 17, 1990, ad "National Drug-Free Schools and Communities Education and Awareness Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 17, 1990, as National Drug-Free Schools and Communities Education and Awareness Day. I urge all Americans and their elected representatives at every level of government to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this seventeenth day of October , in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH