By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
On July 3, 1890, President Benjamin Harrison signed a proclamation declaring Idaho the 43rd State of the Union. During the succeeding century, Idaho and its people have made substantial contributions to the social and economic development of the United States. 
Rich in valuable minerals, fertile land, and unspoiled forests, Idaho is truly the "Gem State." It was Meriwether Lewis and William Clark who first charted the rich, mountainous territory that is now Idaho. During their expedition of 1805-1806, they discovered lush valleys, rivers, and forests teeming with fish and wildlife -- land that had been cultivated and cherished by generations of Indian tribes, including the Kootenai, Nez Perce51, Coeur D'Alene, and Shoshoni. The Lewis and Clark expedition introduced the rest of the Nation to this fertile territory and inspired a long line of explorers and settlers to follow. 
The story of those who settled and developed Idaho is one of enterprise and discovery, hope and hard work. Close behind Lewis and Clark came fur traders, missionaries, and brave pioneer families making their way west along the Oregon Trail. The discovery of gold in the mid-19th century brought a rush of prospectors to the territory and marked the birth of one of Idaho's most productive industries. 
Since becoming a State in 1890, the people of Idaho have demonstrated the same vision, strength, and industriousness exhibited by their forebears. In farming, mining, and tourism, they have made effective use of the State's natural resources, bringing progress and prosperity to the region and to the entire country. Today, all Americans continue to benefit from the careful development of Idaho's vast resources, including its minerals, timber, and, of course, the famous Idaho potato. 
The people of Idaho have also set a wonderful example of environmental stewardship, effectively preserving the breathtaking mountain scenery and pristine rivers explored by Lewis and Clark nearly 2 centuries ago. Each year, thousands of individuals and families visit Idaho to explore its magnificent national forestlands and recreational areas such as Bear Lake and the Craters of the Moon National Monument. 
From its snowcapped mountain peaks and verdant plains to the deep and winding canyons of the Snake River, Idaho continues to be a land of extraordinary natural splendor and untold promise. Its geographic diversity, its colorful history, and its enviable quality of life make the Gem State one of our Nation's great treasures. This year, as they celebrate a century of statehood, the people of Idaho can be very proud indeed. 
In recognition of Idaho's contributions to the United States and in commemoration of its Centennial, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 245, has designated July 3, 1990, as "Idaho Centennial Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim July 3, 1990, as Idaho Centennial Day. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this third day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH