By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
While a sound education is a great and lasting treasure in its own right, it is also vital to the advancement of individuals and nations. Through their educational experiences, young people develop the knowledge and skills needed to become innovative, productive citizens. They also gain an understanding of our Nation's history and an appreciation for our rights and responsibilities as members of a free and democratic society. Thus, if the United States is to remain a free, strong, and prosperous country, one that is competitive in the rapidly changing global marketplace, our educational system must be marked by excellence. 
Our success in strengthening America's educational system may be measured by our progress toward the six national education goals established last year following my Education Summit with the Nation's Governors. First, by the year 2000, all American children must start school ready to learn. High school graduation rates must increase to 90 percent. American students must demonstrate competence in five critical subjects with their progress assessed in grades 4, 8, and 12, and they must rank first in the world in science and mathematics. Every American adult must be literate and possess the skills -- including the technical skills -- necessary to compete in the global economy. Finally, every school in the United States must be safe, disciplined, and drug-free. These goals form a binding standard of excellence for our Nation's schools, a standard that both animates and guides our ongoing efforts to revitalize American education. 
In July, I joined with the Nation's Governors in establishing the National Education Goals Panel, which will measure and report progress toward these crucial objectives. Achieving our national education goals is not, however, a job for panel members and government officials alone. Ensuring a high-quality education for every American will depend on the personal commitment and sustained cooperation of all Americans -- parents, teachers, students, local school administrators, business leaders, and elected officials, as well as the general public. 
Because education is a lifelong process of learning, growth, and discovery, our ability to achieve excellence in the Nation's schools begins at home. What goes on in the class5room is only part of a child's educational experience, and parents have primary responsibility for what -- and how -- their children learn. Parents can contribute substantially to the quality of our educational system by taking active interest in their youngsters' homework and academic progress; by participating in parent-teacher organizations; and by insisting on fair and effective local schol boards. Government can encourage parental involvement by expanding choice in education. 
At home, in the classroom, in public office, and in the community, at large, all of us can and must work toward achieving our national education goals. Each of us is accountable for the quality of American education, and each of us has a vital stake in its future. This week let us reaffirm our determination to make excellence, once again and always, the hallmark of American education. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week beginning November 11, 1990, as American Education Week. I urge all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteen. 
GEORGE BUSH