By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The founding of our magnificent Yellowstone National Park in 1872 not only marked an important milestone in the history of American conservationism but also inspired a worldwide movement to set aside certain lands for the preservation of their unique scenic value and natural resources. Today more than 100 countries boast some 1,200 national parks or equivalent preserves. 
To help protect the scenery, wildlife, and historic sites that are found throughout our National Park System, the Congress established the National Park Service on August 25, 1916. The National Park Service is responsible for managing the lands in its care "in such manner and by such means as will leave them unimpaired for the enjoyment of future generations." It is a noble and important task because our national parks are more than scenic preserves. As the renowned conservationist and civic leader, J. Horace McFarland, observed: 
The parks are the Nation's pleasure grounds and the Nation's restoring places. . . . [they] are an American idea; it is one thing we have that has not been imported. . . . These great parks are, in the highest degree, as they stand today, a sheer expression of democracy. 
Now celebrating its 75th anniversary, the National Park Service has helped to lead the way in protecting America's natural resources and cultural and historic treasures. The Service holds in trust for the American people such riches as the awe-inspiring vistas of the Grand Canyon, the sublime cliffs and forests of Yosemite, the hallowed ground of Gettysburg, the rugged beauty of Acadia, and the towering majesty of our Statue of Liberty. It is estimated that more than 250 million people from throughout the United States and around the world will visit these and other national parks this year. 
The National Park Service will celebrate its 75th anniversary with programs designed to focus attention on the inestimable value of our national parks and on the need for their preservation. In recognition of this anniversary, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 179, has designated the week beginning August 25, 1991, as "National Park Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of August 25 through August 31, 1991, as National Park Week. I invite all Americans, as well as our friends around the world, to participate in events commemorating the 75th anniversary of the National Park Service. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first day of August, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH