By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The recent war in the Persian Gulf resulted in a great and historic victory for the United States and its coalition partners. While we celebrate the liberation of Kuwait and the triumphant return of our courageous troops, we also pause to remember, with solemn pride and appreciation, those service members who bore heavy costs in this conflict. Among them are Americans who were held as prisoners of war. 
The worst kinds of treatment brought out the best in those American service men and women who were captured during the fighting in the Persian Gulf region. Each upheld the high standards of courage and conduct that we have come to expect of our military personnel. Their faith in Almighty God, their love of family, and their deep sense of patriotism and self-discipline have been an inspiration to us all. 
The recent experiences of U.S. service members captured in the Persian Gulf offer a poignant reminder of the tragic circumstances endured by thousands of American POWs throughout our Nation's history. During World War II, the Korean conflict, the Vietnam War, and other conflicts, many American prisoners of war were subjected to brutal treatment and torture by their captors in violation of fundamental standards of morality and international law. Many did not survive. Yet, despite the suffering inflicted by their captors, American POWs have demonstrated an unfailing devotion to duty, honor, and country. Their bravery will never be forgotten by the American people. 
In 1985, the Congress directed the Department of Defense to issue a special medal to all former American prisoners of war. Through the Prisoner of War Medal, as well as our observance of "National Former Prisoner of War Recognition Day," we recognize those American service members and veterans who have been subjected to capture. Recalling the experiences of these Americans, we also renew our commitment to securing the release of any U.S. servicemen and civilians who may still be held against their will, to obtaining the fullest possible accounting of the missing, and to repatriation of all recoverable American remains. 
The Congress, by Public Law 102-23, has designated April 9, 1991, and April 9, 1992, as "National Former Prisoner of War Recognition Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of these occasions. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim April 9, 1991, and April 9, 1992, as National Former Prisoner of War Recognition Day. I call upon all Americans to join in remembering former American prisoners of war and their families, who have suffered at the hands of our enemies. I also call upon Federal, State, and local government officials and private organizations to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this third day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH