By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Radon is a naturally occurring, colorless gas that, when concentrated in high levels, can pose a threat to human health. Generated by the natural breakdown of uranium in soil, rock, and groundwater, radon can gradually seep into any building through cracks and other openings in the foundation. Because radon has been detected in every State across the country, all Americans should be aware of this potential hazard. 
High levels of radon in the home are believed to be the second leading cause of lung cancer in the United States. Indeed, only smoking causes more deaths by the disease. People who smoke and dwell in a house with unacceptable levels of radon run an especially high risk of developing lung cancer. 
Fortunately, even extremely high levels of radon in the home can be reduced, and testing for the gas is relatively simple and inexpensive. Indeed, testing one's home, school, or office for radon should require little time and few resources. 
The United States Environmental Protection Agency has joined with a number of State governments in promoting local efforts to help Americans test their homes and schools. Other organizations that are sharing in these efforts include: the American Lung Association, the Advertising Council, the Consumer Federation of America, the American Public Health Association, the National Safety Council, and the National Association of Counties. This week, I join with them in urging all Americans to test their homes for radon and to make any necessary modifications to reduce excessive levels of the gas. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 132, has designated the week of October 13 through October 19, 1991, as "National Radon Action Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of October 13 through October 19, 1991, as National Radon Action Week. I encourage government officials and all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs and activities designed to enhance public awareness of the risks of excessive radon exposure and ways that we can reduce them. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH