By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Parents play a singularly influential role in the educational development of their children. Indeed, parents' encouragement and example are far more important factors than a family's social and economic background. Research clearly shows that the interest parents demonstrate in their youngster's daily studies and other school activities can significantly enhance that child's academic performance. 
By bringing parents together in an ongoing partnership with teachers and school administrators, the Parents and Teachers Association (PTA) provides an effective means for parents to participate in the education of their children. Because every child, every school, and every community is unique, local PTAs can be an ideal vehicle for meeting specific goals and needs. 
The sustained involvement and cooperation of parents are vital if we are to reach our six National Education Goals and ensure that every American has the opportunity to acquire a high quality education. Local PTA groups enable parents to express their concerns and ideas regarding their children's education, and this week we proudly salute these valued organizations. 
In recognition of the contributions of PTA organizations across America, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 364 (Public Law 101-643), has designated the third week of February 1991 as "National Parents and Teachers Association Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning February 17, 1991, as National Parents and Teachers Association Week. I urge all Americans to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 21 day of Feb., in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and 91, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH