By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
From coast to coast the United States is marked by an abundance of beautiful public parks and fascinating historic landmarks, as well as a variety of recreational and cultural attractions. These features, coupled with the hospitality of our people and the high quality of American travel services and accommodations, make the United States the world's number one tourist destination. 
Tourism and business travel not only provide rewarding educational opportunities for individuals but also contribute to the Nation's economic prosperity. The travel and tourism industry is America's second largest private employer, directly or indirectly supporting millions of jobs across the country. According to the United States Department of Commerce, the industry is also our largest export earner. With nearly $350 billion spent annually by all travellers and tourists in the United States, travel and tourism account for about 6.5 percent of our gross national product. 
While travel and tourism enrich virtually every community in which they thrive, they are especially important to rural America. More and more, Americans and international visitors are travelling to rural America, not only to explore our forests, parks, and recreation areas, but also to enjoy a respite from the hustle and bustle of urban life. Businesses are beginning to discover the many advantages of holding retreats and seminars in the country. All of this activitiy brings thousands of dollars into rural economies, benefitting small businesses and entire communities alike. 
Both in rural areas and in our cities, the revenue generated by travel and tourism helps to spur needed development -- including the building of schools, where children can learn about our Nation's past and acquire the knowledge and skills needed to enjoy a bright future. 
Students can benefit significantly from travel in the United States, as can everyone who recognizes it as a wonderful learning opportunity. Indeed, the many historic and cultural landmarks preserved across American help to tell our Nation's story. Monuments and museums, battlefields and nature trails -- all trace the rich history of America's native peoples and the immigrants who helped to make this land the home of freedom and opportunity as well. Moreover, in today's shops and markets, in our courthouse and legislative halls, visitors can see American free enterprise and democracy at work. This year is a most exciting time to rediscover America, since we celebrate the 200th year of our Bill of Rights. 
This week, let us honor all those Americans who work in the travel and tourism industry -- particularly those who are striving to promote tourism in rural areas and to increase America's share of the world tourism market. Each of us benefits, in so many ways, from their year-round efforts. 
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 102, has designated the the week beginning on the first Sunday in May as "National Tourism Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of May 5 through May 11, 1991, as National Tourism Week. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this third day of May, in the Year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH