By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Dedicated to serving terminally ill persons and their families, hospice programs have become an important part of our Nation's health care system. This month, we gratefully salute the many outstanding professionals and volunteers who provide hospice care. 
By offering a positive and supportive environment, as well as high quality medical care, hospice programs enable terminally ill persons to live peacefully and comfortably in their final days. In so doing, these facilities and services not only reaffirm the inherent dignity and worth of every individual but also demonstrate reverence for human life in all its stages. Relying on the combined knowledge, skills, and compassion of a full team of professionals and volunteers -- including physicians, nurses, counselors, therapists, and members of the clergy -- hospice programs also help patients' families to cope with their bereavement. 
As hospice personnel well know, caring for terminally ill persons can be physically and emotionally exhausting. Fortunately, the establishment of a permanent Medicare hospice benefit and an optional Medicaid hospice benefit has made it possible for more Americans to obtain needed medical and support services. In addition, concerned individuals and agencies in both the public and private sectors have maintained strong working relationships in the interest of hospice care benefits. 
In recognition of the importance of hospice programs and in honor of the many dedicated professionals and volunteers who care for terminally ill persons, the Congress, by Public Law 102 - 121, has designated November 1991 and November 1992 as "National Hospice Month" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of these months. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim November 1991 and November 1992 as National Hospice Month. I encourage all Americans, as well as government officials and health care providers, to observe these months with appropriate programs and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH