By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Utilized by individuals who are blind to enhance their mobility and independence, the white cane is a widely recognized symbol of determination and achievement. By employing this simple device, thousands of Americans with visual impairments are able to navigate safely and freely through their environment, thereby leading fuller, more productive lives. 
During our annual observance of White Cane Safety Day, we not only celebrate the accomplishments of those who use the white cane but also renew our commitment to removing the physical and attitudinal barriers that have, in the past, impeded the advancement of Americans with disabilities. This commitment underlies our efforts to implement the provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, which prohibits discrimination against persons with disabilities in many areas of daily life, including employment, public accommodations, telecommunications, and transportation. 
Of course, one of the most important keys to opportunity in our society is a high-quality education. Accordingly, AMERICA 2000, our strategy for achieving our National Education Goals, is designed to ensure that every American has access to a world-class education. 
For persons who are blind, equality in education begins before preschool and extends beyond the traditional classroom. That is, parents, teachers, public officials, and other concerned Americans must work together to promote school readiness for the blind, as well as access to on-the-job training and other educational opportunities. 
On this occasion, as we reflect on the white cane and all that it symbolizes, let us reaffirm, once again, our determination to ensure equal opportunity for all Americans -- including persons who are visually impaired. 
The Congress, by Joint Resolution approved October 6, 1964, authorized the President to designate October 15 of each year as "White Cane Safety Day." 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 15, 1991, as White Cane Safety Day. I encourage all Americans to observe this day with appropriate programs and activities, in recognition of the achievements of those individuals who use the white cane. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this first day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH