By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Public philanthropy has long been a hallmark of American life. The earliest settlers in this country were people of great faith and conviction, and they well understood the Biblical injunction to extend kindness and hospitality to others. Yet the spirit of voluntary association and giving was not only a virtue but also a practical necessity for those residing on the frontier. 
Today, even with the best efforts of Federal, State, and local government, voluntary service remains essential to solving our Nation's most serious social problems. Accordingly, concerned and generous Americans are engaged in voluntary activities that range from providing job training and employment for the homeless to protecting the environment, preventing disease, assisting parents of needy families, and encouraging young people to stay in school. 
Last year, Americans contributed more than $100 billion in support of charitable organizations and activities. However, public philanthropy is not just about money. Millions of Americans -- people of every age, race, and walk of life -- give of their time and their talents in voluntary community service. These "Points of Light" are helping to supply food and clothing for the needy; they are promoting important advances in biomedical research; and they are providing vital support to schools, churches, hospitals, museums, and a host of other institutions. These Americans are demonstrating that you don't have to be wealthy to be a philanthropist, you just have to care. 
In grateful recognition of all those who conduct and support the work of our Nation's charitable organizations, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 96, has designated November 19, 1991, as "National Philanthropy Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim November 19, 1991, as National Philanthropy Day. I encourage the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate programs and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH