By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The ability to read, write, and comprehend the written word is essential to full participation in our society. Literacy opens the door to the realm of ideas and enables us to enjoy the rewards of lifelong learning. It enables us to stay more fully informed about events of the day, it helps us to be better parents, and it gives us tools that we need to exercise our rights and responsibilities as citizens. That is why we will continue to reach out to the millions of Americans who remain encumbered by poor literacy skills. 
During this 25th year of the Adult Education Act, we are embarked on a bold new campaign to build a nation of students. It is known as our AMERICA 2000 strategy. One of the six National Education Goals that this strategy has been designed to reach is full adult literacy by the turn of the century. As a Nation we are committed to ensuring that every citizen will be literate and possess the knowledge and skills -- including the technical skills -- that are needed to enjoy full, productive lives in an increasingly competitive world. 
On this occasion, we commend the many educators, business leaders, and volunteers in communities across the Nation who have dedicated themselves to achieving the goal of full adult literacy. In addition, we celebrate the courage and the accomplishments of those adults who are working to achieve greater literacy and to reach their fullest potential -- as parents, employees, citizens and neighbors. 
In recognition of the vital importance of literacy to the personal well-being of every American and to the strength and productivity of our entire Nation, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 259, has designated July 2, 1991, as "National Literacy Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this occasion. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim July 2, 1991, as National Literacy Day. I call upon the people of the United States, government officials, and all Americans to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this second day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH