By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
A staple food for much of the world's population, rice is one of the most important grains grown today. It is cultivated in more than 100 countries and on every continent except Antarctica. Rice was cultivated in North America as early as 1696. Indeed, by the time the United States declared its independence from Great Britain, rice had become one of this country's major agricultural exports. 
Today the United States is one of the world's leading exporters of rice, supplying about 20 percent of the rice in world trade. In addition, much American-grown rice has been provided to other countries through Food for Peace programs, which have helped to promote the social and economic well-being of less developed nations and provided vital sustenance to victims of disaster. 
The United States Department of Agriculture reports that American growers harvested more than 7 million metric tons of rice last year. The value of this crop is important to our Nation's economy. 
Rice is an important agricultural commodity not only in terms of its economic value but also in terms of its nutritional value. An excellent source of complex carbohydrates, rice can be a healthy part of a well-balanced diet. It contains only a trace of fat and is cholesterol- and sodium-free. 
Consumers can enjoy various types of rice, from brown rice to the more traditional white rice, which is utilized in gourmet recipes as it is in simple meals. Wild rice, a native grain of North America, is being increasingly enjoyed by American consumers. 
Rice may also be processed in various forms: as bran or flour in baked goods, or as an ingredient in cereals and healthful snacks. Rice is also an important component in the domestic brewing of beer. 
To promote greater awareness of the versatility and the value of rice, and to celebrate America's status as a major exporter of rice for both commercial and humanitarian purposes, the Congress, by Public Law 101 - 492, has designated the month of September 1991 as "National Rice Month" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this month. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim September 1991 as National Rice Month. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of August, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH