By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
In the post-Cold War world, one of the key issues that must be addressed is population growth and its impact on resources, environment, and development. Recognizing that population goals and policies should be part of more comprehensive efforts to improve the standards of living of all peoples, to promote social and economic development, human rights, and individual freedom, we focus this week on the links between economic development, environmental degradation, and demographic trends among the world's population. 
As the G-7 leaders stated during the 1990 Houston Economic Summit, "sustainable development requires that population growth remain in some reasonable balance with expanding resources." Supporting the efforts of developing countries to maintain this balance is a priority. 
As part of a comprehensive economic development assistance program, the United States continues to take a strong position in the global community to address, cooperatively and effectively, issues of poverty, illiteracy, population pressures, environmental degradation, and human health. Recognizing the sovereign right of each nation to respond to its specific needs, and respecting the fundamental rights and cultural and religious beliefs of parents, the United States supplies nearly half of all international assistance provided to support safe, effective, and voluntary family planning programs. In light of worldwide demand for such assistance, we now look to each nation to do its fair share in aiding voluntary population programs, not as ends in themselves, but as measures in support of sustainable development. 
Massive urban migration poses a special challenge to the international community today, as urbanization leads to increased demands for infrastructure and services while exacerbating problems such as crime, inadequate health care and pollution. Ensuring environmental sustainability and slowing population growth where it threatens the economic progress that all of us seek are among the commitments that the United States has made together with other members of the international community. 
Sustainability is impossible, however, without a healthy, well-educated population -- hence the United States supports programs to improve maternal and child health; to expand education, skills training, and disease prevention; to integrate women more fully into the political and economic life of nations; and to target the specific health problems of the poor, which are often aggravated by conditions such as poor sanitation and lack of safe drinking water. 
By promoting literacy and good health among individuals, by fostering the strength and stability of families, and by affirming the right of all human beings to live and work in freedom and security, we will continue to promote the health, stability, and progress of their communities and nations. 
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 458, has designated the week beginning October 25, 1992, as "World Population Awareness Week" and has requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning October 25, 1992, as World Population Awareness Week. I invite all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth. 
GEORGE BUSH