By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Adherence to the princples of independent enterpreneurship and free enterprise has long formed the bedrock of America's economic strength. By guaranteeing the freedom of individuals to engage in private industry and commerce and by permitting them to reap the fruits of their labor, the United States has provided a model of growth and progress for the world. The creative energy and genius of the American people, unfettered by excessive government intervention in the marketplace, have enabled our Nation to achieve unparalleled levels of productivity and strength. 
At a time when dramatic changes in the global marketplace are presenting new challenges and opprotunities for American business and industry, our Nation's continued economic progress calls for the full participation and support of all citizens, regardless of gender, race, or ethnic background. During this 10th annual observance of Minority Enterprise Development Week, we recognize that our Nation's minority business community, which includes more than 1 million minority enterpreneurs, must be part of the United States strategy to remain a leader in the increasingly competitive world economy. 
Minority Americans have long recognized that freedom and equality also require economic opportunity and independence. By making the most of every opportunity and by achieving economic advancement through determination and hard work, minority business men and women have set wonderful examples for others. Such a drive to succeed offers inspiration as we strengthen our Nation's commitment to producing high quality products and services that are competitive in the global marketplace. A similar commitment to excellence underlies American 2000, our national campaign to promote learning and achievement and to ensure that every American has the knowledge and skills that are necessary to lead a full, productive life in an increasingly technological workplace. 
The spirit that we celebrate during Minority Enterprise Development Week is the spirit that will lead the United States to even greater heights of prosperity and progress in the next century. It is the spirit of individuals who avail themselves of every opportunity to fulfill the American dream and who help to extend opportunities to others, thereby enriching themselves, their communities, and our country. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week of September 27 through October 3, 1992, as Minority Enterprise Development Week. I encourage all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs and activities in celebration of the achievements of minority business men and women and in recognition of the successful public-private partnerships that are leading to greater educational and economic opportunities for all Americans. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth. 
GEORGE BUSH