By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Literacy not only constitutes a fundamental set of skills in a world where so much depends on the ability to read and to comprehend the written word -- from city maps and children's school reports to job applications and tax forms -- it also provides an inexhaustible source of opportunity and enrichment. Literacy gives us access to the great books and to other works that contain the creative genius and acquired wisdom of the ages. It also enables us to exercise more fully our rights and responsibilities as citizens, helping us to be more informed voters and more effective parents and teachers of our children. More than the ability to read and write, literacy is the priceless legacy of families who foster a love of learning and a commitment to education in each generation. It is also the vital tool of a work force that must have the knowledge and skills, including the technical skills, that are needed to excel in an increasingly competitive global environment. 
On this occasion, we reaffirm the importance of literacy to the social and economic advancement of individuals and to the continued productivity and prosperity of our Nation. We also recognize all those who are working to promote literacy -- among adults, as well as youth. In addition to thousands of dedicated teachers, this includes countless volunteers who serve as tutors and mentors, businesses and community associations that support libraries and literacy programs, and, of course, millions of parents who read together with their children and who take an active interest in their homework and in their progress in school. 
As part of our America 2000 campaign, the Federal Government has been working to achieve our National Education Goal of full literacy for all Americans. In 1990, I established a Task Force on Literacy to coordinate Federal literacy policies and programs and to spur efforts to improve literacy in the United States. Last year I was pleased to sign the National Literacy Act of 1991, which provides for greater coordination of literacy programs, an historic step toward a more literate America. 
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 499, has designated July 2, 1992, as "National Literacy Day" and has requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim July 2, 1992, as National Literacy Day. I call on all Americans to observe this day with appropriate programs and activities in recognition of the importance of literacy to individuals and to our Nation. I urge parents, especially, to recognize the importance of reading with their children and to encourage them, through word and example, to discover the rewards of lifelong learning. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this first day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH