By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
By observing 1992 as the Year of the American Indian, we celebrate the rich heritage of each of this country's nation peoples, as well as the unique government-to-government relationship that has envolved between Indian tribes and the Federal Government of the United States. At a time when we are working hard to strengthen a relationship based on mutual trust and cooperation -- one in which the tribes of the Nation stand shoulder to shoulder with the other governmental units that form our Republic -- it is fitting that we also designate 1992 as a "Year of Reconciliation Between American Indians and Non-Indians." 
Because reconciliation begins with mutual understanding and acceptance, the observance is aimed at encouraging cultural education and exchange among American Indians and non-Indians. This year schools, business associations, and the media, as well as religious organizations and civic groups, are invited to join in honoring America's indigenous peoples and in helping non-Indians to learn more about each tribe's unique history, customs, and traditions. Through education, we can overcome age-old myths and stereotypes and heal divisions that hinder progress toward our shared goals of equal opportunity and justice. 
Over the years, efforts to increase tribal self-governance have brought a renewed sense of pride and empowerment to this country's native peoples. By continuing to seek full reconciliation among American Indians and non-Indians, we will strengthen and enrich the entire Nation. 
The Congress, by Public Law 102-279, has designated 1992 as a "Year of Reconciliation Between American Indians and Non-Indians," and has requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this year. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim 1992 as a Year of Reconciliation Between American Indians and Non-Indians. I invite all Americans to observe this year with appropriate programs and activities in honor of this country's natice peoples and in recognition of the importance of promoting increased understanding among all the inhabitants of this great and blessed land. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH