By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
With the adoption of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), the United States emphatically reaffirmed its commitment to equal opportunity for every citizen. By eliminating barriers to employment, public accommodations, and government services, this historic legislation will enable millions of persons with disabilities to participate more fully in our Nation's social and economic mainstream. The ADA not only provides a model for the world but also portends a bright future for the United States as we look forward to the increasing contributions of talented, hardworking men and women who happen to have a disability. 
Today millions of Americans with disabilities are already making outstanding contributions to our communities and country. For some, these achievements would not have been possible without rehabilitation. The field of rehabilitation includes a wide range of professionals and volunteers -- from researchers and health care providers to teachers, therapists, and engineers. Utilizing state-of-the-art technologies and techniques, these professionals and volunteers are helping determined individuals to achieve their dreams of greater freedom and independence -- including productive, satisfying jobs and careers. Thus, while the ADA opens doors of opportunity for persons with disabilities, rehabilitation offers the means by which many will be able to pass through them. 
Because rehabilitation cultivates one's potential for personal and economic autonomy and advancement, it not only enriches the lives of Americans with disabilities but also enables our entire Nation to benefit from their knowledge, creativity, and skills. Thanks, in large part, to rehabilitative programs and services, persons with disabilities are attaining positions of leadership and responsibility throughout American society: in government and business, in science and education -- wherever there is an opportunity or a need. The accomplishments of Americans who have benefitted from rehabilitation are the catalyst for continuing efforts to develop a wider array of rehabilitative services and to promote improved coordination among human services agencies in both the public and private sectors. 
In honor of Americans with disabilities who are achieving their goals through rehabilitation and in recognition of the professionals and volunteers who serve in this important field, the Congress, by Public Law 102-362, has designated the week of September 13 through September 19, 1992, as "National Rehabilitation Week" and has requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of September 13 through September 19, 1992, as National Rehabilitation Week. I encourage all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs and activities. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this first day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth. 
GEORGE BUSH