By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The heart of a nation may well be judged by the amount of respect that it has for its elders. Accordingly, when we pause to honor older Americans, the men and women who have helped to keep the United States free, strong, and prosperous, we show that we are a grateful people. 
Older Americans constitute a living link to the past as well as a rich source of experience and wisdom for the future. They are our parents, grandparents, neighbors, and mentors, and, together, they have helped to preserve the rich legacy of freedom that we enjoy today. Through two global conflicts and the Cold War that followed, older Americans labored and sacrificed to defend the light of liberty. Through their creativity and hard work, they developed technology that has enabled us to cross new frontiers in space and science while achieving ever higher levels of industrial and agricultural productivity. Today, millions of older Americans share their talents and expertise with younger generations by engaging in voluntary service, thereby becoming Points of Light. What better way to thank our senior citizens than to ensure that they have access to the opportunities, services, and support that they so rightly deserve. 
Each of us can contribute toward that important goal by joining in the National Eldercare Campaign. As part of this campaign, the Federal Government is working to promote partnerships among private voluntary organizations and State and Area Agencies on Aging. These locally established coalitions will help to address the specific needs of the at-risk elderly, thereby enabling millions of older Americans to live with dignity and security in their own homes and communities. 
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the month of May 1992 as Older Americans Month. I call on the people of the United States to observe this month with appropriate ceremonies and activities in honor of our Nation's senior citizens. 
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this 18 day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth. 
GEORGE BUSH