By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Each spring, our Nation pauses to remember those who have died securing our peace and freedom. Across our country, Americans are holding ceremonies in remembrance of those who have died under the colors of our Nation. We remember the brave men and women whose sacrifices have paved the way for us to live in a country like America. We remember the families of our fallen heroes, and we grieve for their losses. And we remember the men and women who are now serving in our Armed Forces.
In the war with Iraq and more recently in our peacekeeping operations in Somalia, more names of young Americans have been added to the roster of our departed heroes. Young service men and women who died in the Persian Gulf joined Americans who left their mark on history at places like the Argonne in World War I, Omaha Beach in World War II, and Pork Chop Hill in Korea, and in the jungles and rice paddies of Vietnam.
Through two centuries and several wars, America has remained the land of the free and the home of the brave. The Persian Gulf war reaffirmed that international peace and security depend on our Nation's vigilance and on the sacrifices of our service men and women. Even in this post-Cold War era, we must be wary, for the world still remains a dangerous place.
By showing our understanding, we can help further the sense of lives well lived, a time on earth well spent, and a heritage of service of lasting meaning.
In respect and recognition of those Americans to whom we pay tribute today, the Congress, by joint resolution of May 11, 1950 (64 Stat. 158), has requested the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United States to observe each Memorial Day as a day of prayer for permanent peace and designating a period on that day when the people of the United States might unite in prayer.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby designate Memorial Day, May 31, 1993, as a day of prayer for permanent peace, and I designate the hour beginning in each locality at 11 o'clock in the morning of that day as a time to unite in prayer. I urge the press, radio, television, and all other information media to cooperate in this observance.
I also request the Governors of the United States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the appropriate officials of all units of government, to direct that the flag be flown at half-staff until noon during this Memorial Day on all buildings, grounds, and naval vessels throughout the United States and in all areas under its jurisdiction and control, and I request the people of the United States to display the flag at half-staff from their homes for the customary forenoon period.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON