By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Traditionally, the third Sunday in June is nationally designated as Father's Day. This year, on June 20th, I call upon all Americans to thank and honor fathers across the land for the love, nurturing, guidance, and sacrifices they have made in behalf of our Nation's daughters and sons.
A key prescription for building strong families is honoring one's parents. As Americans know and as history has witnessed, the acts of dedication to family are essential to our Nation's endurance and spiritual growth. Reaffirming our commitment to fathers is an invaluable element in nurturing the health of our Nation's families.
Fathers perform many roles, and they profoundly influence their children and our society. As co-creators of life, fathers -- accepting responsibility for the welfare of their offspring -- serve as economic providers, role-models, nurturers, coaches, counselors, and lifelong friends. They also help define and set standards for their children for personal, academic, and professional accomplishments.
Because fathers hold a very special place in our lives, it is fitting that we pay tribute to all fathers now living, as well as the memory of those now deceased. In that spirit, let us as Americans express and demonstrate to our fathers -- through word and action -- our appreciation for their love and for the contributions they have made to us and our Nation.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, in accordance with a joint resolution of the Congress approved April 24, 1972 (36 U.S.C. 142a), do hereby proclaim Sunday, June 20, 1993, as "Father's Day." I call upon all Americans to observe this day by demonstrating our respect for and our gratitude to our fathers.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this seventeenth day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON