By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
June conjures up memories of sunny days, backyard cookouts, relaxing vacations, lush gardens in bloom, and on the third Sunday of the month, the celebration of Father's Day. This is a time set aside by tradition to pay tribute to fathers across our land and to thank them for their unconditional love, for their belief in their children's potential, and for their vital parental role. Their profound influence on their sons and daughters—on society itself—is incalculable.
The loving concern of fathers in raising, protecting, educating, encouraging, and providing direction for their children shapes our national character, as well as our children's. The positive interaction of fathers who responsibly welcome the challenges of guiding their children is immeasurable. Through the nurturing support of such parents, competent, caring, and resilient generations of citizens develop and thrive. These fathers, whether biological, foster, or adoptive, deserve our honor and gratitude.
All fathers in our society today must reinvest in supplying emotional and financial support for their children. It is never too late to assume the responsibility for meeting a child's needs. To do so, despite personal and economic hardship, is to help our children transcend adverse circumstances and to earn the love, respect, and appreciation that will become a legacy of devotion for generations long after ours.
Our Nation is becoming increasingly aware that a father's acceptance and support are powerful motivators. It is most fitting that we recognize our fathers' contributions today and every day—that we express, through word or deed, our appreciation to them and that we remember their love, their friendship, and their faith in us.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, in accordance with a joint resolution of the Congress approved April 24, 1972 (36 U.S.C. 142a), do hereby proclaim, Sunday, June 19, 1994, as "Father's Day." I invite the States, communities and people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies as a mark of appreciation and affection for our fathers.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON