By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
In light of the refusal of the Government of Sudan to comply with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1044 of January 31, 1996, and in furtherance of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1054 of April 26, 1996, I have determined that it is in the foreign policy interests of the United States to restrict the entry into the United States of aliens described in paragraph 3 of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1054 and in section 1 of this proclamation.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 by the power vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, including sections 212(f) and 215 of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, as amended (8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, hereby find that the unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of persons described in section 1 of this proclamation would, except as provided for in section 2 of this proclamation, be detrimental to the interests of the United States. I therefore, do proclaim that:
Section 1. The entry into the United States as immigrants and nonimmigrants of members of the Government of Sudan, officials of that Government, and members of the Sudanese armed forces, is hereby suspended.
Sec. 2. Section 1 shall not apply with respect to any person otherwise covered by section 1 where the entry of such person would not be contrary to the interests of the United States.
Sec. 3. Persons covered by section 1 and 2 shall be identified by the Secretary of State.
Sec. 4. Nothing in this proclamation shall be construed to restrict the entry of Sudanese officials coming to the United States on official business of the United Nations other than in a manner consistent with the obligations of the United States to the United Nations.
Sec. 5. This proclamation is effective immediately and shall remain in effect until such time as the Secretary of State determines that it is no longer necessary and should be terminated.
Sec. 6. The Secretary of State is hereby authorized to implement this proclamation pursuant to such procedures as he may establish.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-first.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON