By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Forty-three years ago, a negotiated cease-fire ended 3 years of open warfare on the Korean peninsula. This cease-fire came after more than 54,000 American deaths and the capture of thousands of our brave soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines. For those who returned home, the armistice brought mixed emotions—too many of their comrades-in-arms remained prisoners of war or missing in action, and the importance of this Cold War conflict was yet to be fully understood.
Today, as the United States and South Korea maintain a strong partnership and democracy continues to sweep the globe, we remember the extraordinary sacrifices made by our men and women in uniform during the Korean conflict, and we pay tribute to their courage and their commitment to freedom. As American service men and women support the cause of peace around the world, we honor the proud legacy of our Korean War veterans who gave of themselves so that others might live in liberty. And as a testament to their proud and selfless service and sacrifice, the Korean War Veterans Memorial stands today in our Nation's Capital.
The Congress, by Public Law 104-19 (36 U.S.C. 169m) has designated July 27, 1996, as "National Korean War Veterans Armistice Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim July 27, 1996, as National Korean War Veterans Armistice Day. I call upon Government officials, educators, and the American people to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities that recognize and give thanks to our Nation's distinguished Korean War veterans. I also ask Federal departments and agencies, interested groups, organizations, and individuals to fly the American flag at half-staff on July 27, 1996 in memory of the Americans who died as a result of their service in Korea.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-first.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON