By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
In his inaugural address, President John F. Kennedy said, "Since this country was founded, each generation of Americans has been summoned to give testimony to its national loyalty." The members of our Armed Forces have long responded to such a call, though their task has often been difficult and fraught with peril. Drawing on an abiding devotion to country, America's service men and women have faced loneliness and danger, grave injury and death, to protect our Nation's interests and to reach out to others by providing humanitarian assistance.
In pausing to honor all those who have dedicated their lives to our freedom, let us reflect on their deep commitment to the fundamental ideals of independence, justice, and equality—the very foundations of our way of life—and draw inspiration from their shining example. For more than 200 years, America's shores have embraced immigrants seeking opportunity, while our system of government has encouraged people around the world who struggle against tyranny and oppression. Following the brave men and women who wear our Nation's uniform, let us each do our part to strengthen this legacy and to ensure that future generations will enjoy and cherish the precious liberties we hold so dear.
To nurture loyalty to and love of country, the Congress, by Public Law 85-529, has designated May 1 of each year as "Loyalty Day." We spend this day in celebration of our Constitution and Bill of Rights, and we honor the extraordinary sacrifices made by the members of our Armed Forces throughout our Nation's proud history.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim May 1, 1996, as Loyalty Day. I call upon all Americans to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities, including recitation of the Pledge of Allegiance. I also call upon government officials to display the flag on all government buildings and grounds.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twentieth.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON