By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
The American Jewish community, with its rich and diverse culture, has served as a continuous source of ethical and moral values for our great Nation since its founding. The principles of Jewish heritage—family, community, faith, and service—parallel the ideals that inspired our country's founders and that anchor our modern democracy.
Members of the Jewish faith have long added to America's cultural life a legacy of law and human compassion, a struggle for freedom and fairness, and a love of learning and the arts. Drawing from their proud heritage, Jewish citizens have made vital contributions to every sector of society, as scientists and soldiers, judges and teachers, artists, entrepreneurs, and philanthropists.
Jewish traditions lend special meaning to the spring season. The recent celebration of Passover commemorates the exodus of Jew ish slaves from ancient Egypt. The observance of this religious and historical milestone also honors the character of the Jewish people, who, despite continual hardship, clung to their enduring faith in God and the promise of a brighter future. The annual spring commemorations of Passover, Holocaust Memorial Day, and Israel's Independence are occasions for deep reflection by American Jewry and demonstrate to all Americans the importance of remembrance, faith, freedom, and justice.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 11 through May 18, 1997, as Jewish Heritage Week. I urge all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs and to pay tribute to American Jews for sharing their message of hope and perseverance with all of us.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-first.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON