By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
Almost a thousand years ago, the great Norse explorer Leif Erikson first set foot on the North American continent. In commemorating Leif Erikson Day each year, we honor the pioneering spirit of this son of Iceland and grandson of Norway. We recall the daring of the Viking seafarers, who saw the ocean not as a boundary but as a gateway to another world, and we pay tribute to the courage of their descendants who, centuries later would brave their own ocean journeys to find a new life in America.
This thirst for adventure has remained a fundamental trait of the American character since our earliest days as a Nation. But men and women of the Nordic countries brought other important strengths to their adopted land as well: resourcefulness, self-reliance, determination, a willingness to work hard, a love of freedom, and a belief in human dignity. Leif Erikson's arrival in North America brought not only the explorer's passion to our country, but also laid the foundations of the friendship the United States enjoys today with the Nordic countries. Building on the values we share, our nations have made a powerful commitment to protect and expand political, religious, and economic freedom to peoples around the world. Staunch allies in times of peace and war, the United States and the countries of Scandinavia look forward to the year 2000 when we will commemorate together the 1000th anniversary of Leif Erikson's historic voyage to our continent and celebrate the important and lasting contributions the sons and daughters of Iceland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, and Finland have made to the history and heritage of our Nation.
In honor of Leif Erikson, the Congress, by joint resolution approved on September 2, 1964 (Public Law 88-566), has authorized and requested the President to proclaim October 9 of each year as "Leif Erikson Day."
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 9, 1998, as Leif Erikson Day. I encourage the people of the United States to observe this occasion with appropriate ceremonies and activities commemorating our rich Nordic-American heritage.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-third.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON