By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
 
There is nothing more precious than the bond between a mother and her child. With unconditional love and infinite patience, our mothers nurture us throughout our lives, helping us to meet life's challenges and achieve our dreams. Mothers—whether biological or adoptive, foster or stepmothers—are the cornerstones of our families, and our families are the foundation of our Nation. Mothers are the bridges that link America's best promise to its brightest reality.
The role of women has changed dramatically in the last half-century, bringing exciting new opportunities as well as fresh challenges. Today, our mothers can be mayors and managers, heads of households and homemakers—yet they still make us the center of their lives and the focus of their love. Regardless of whether they work inside or outside the home, we still turn to our mothers when we need reassurance, advice, or comfort. Devotion and love, loyalty and selflessness—these are the traits that define motherhood.
For 85 years, we have reserved the second Sunday in May as a special day to honor our mothers for their strength, nobility, and generosity. In so many ways, we owe our successes—and those of our Nation—to the loving influence of our mothers. Although we can never repay them for their gift of life and love, we can honor them in person or cherish their beloved memory. The Congress, by a joint resolution approved May 8, 1914 (38 Stat. 770), has designated the second Sunday in May of each year as "Mother's Day" and requested the President to call for its appropriate observance.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton,
 President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim May 9, 1999, as Mother's Day. I urge all Americans to express their love and appreciation for their mothers on this day and every day and to observe the day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof,
 I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-third.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON